WARSAW, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-12, current through
Ordinance 2024-07, passed 11-11-2024
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1992-10
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE ORDINANCES AS PREPARED AND CODIFIED AS THE
COMPLETE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WARSAW
   WHEREAS, THE VARIOUS ORDINANCES AS PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL FOR THE CITY
OF WARSAW HAVE BECOME ARCHAIC AND DISORGANIZED;
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF WARSAW, KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION I.
   That all Ordinances for the City of Warsaw and relating to all nonplanning
and zoning ordinances as codified by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
133 West Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 in 1991, including: Title 1:
General Provisions; Title 3: Administration; Title 5: Public Works; Title 7:
Traffic Code; Title 9; General Regulations; Title 11: Business Regulations;
Title 13: General Offenses; Title 15: Land Usage; Table of Special Ordinances;
Parallel References and Index shall represent a codification of the City's
Ordinances.
   SECTION II.
   All Ordinances as amended shall be reflected in the official copy of this
Code of Ordinances available in the City offices by the City Clerk.
   SECTION III.
   All Ordinances including the Code of Ordinances shall be amended to reflect
any and all changes of the Ordinances.
   SECTION IV.
   This Ordinance shall take effect after its passage and upon publication.
   First Reading:   April 13, 1992
   Second Reading:   May 11, 1992
      E. Richard Wood /s/
      Mayor
Attest:
Barbara Baker /s/
Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1994-007
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WARSAW, KENTUCKY.
WHEREAS, AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION OF CINCINNATI, OHI9 HAS
COMPLETED THE 1994 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF WARSAW,
KENTUCKY, WHICH SUPPLEMENT CONTAINS ALL ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL NATURE ENACTED
SINCE THE PRIOR SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE MUNICIPALITY; AND
WHEREAS, SAID AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION HAS RECOMMENDED THE
REVISION OR ADDITION OF CERTAIN SECTIONS OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES WHICH ARE
BASED ON OR MAKE REFERENCES TO SECTIONS OF THE KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES; AND
WHEREAS, IT IS THE INTENT OF COUNCIL TO ACCEPT THESE UPDATED SECTIONS IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHANGES OF THE LAW AND THE COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WARSAW,
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY:
SECTION I. THAT THE 1994 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
WARSAW, KENTUCKY AS SUBMITTED BY AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION OF
CINCINNATI, AND AS ATTACHED HERETO, BE AND THE SAME IS HEREBY ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE AS IF SET OUT IN ITS ENTIRETY,
SECTION 2. THAT THIS ORDINANCE SHALL TAKE EFFECT AND BE IN FORCE FROM AND AFTER
ITS DATE OF PASSAGE.
PASSED THIS 8TH DAY OF AUGUST, 1994.
First Reading: July 11, 1994
Second Reading: August 8, 1994
         Earl Richard Wood /s/
         Earl Richard Wood, Mayor
Attest:
Barbara Baker /s/
Barbara Baker, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1997-003
AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE 1996 S-2 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES AS PREPARED BY
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WARSAW,
KENTUCKY AS FOLLOWS:
(1)   THAT THE 1996 S-2 SUPPLEMENT OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES AS PREPARED BY
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION CURRENT THROUGH MAY 13, 1996, BE ADOPTED
AS ACCURATE REFLECTION AND CODIFICATION OF THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF WARSAW
AND
(2)   THAT THE ORDINANCE CODE BOOK BE SO SUPPLEMENTED
First Reading:   December 9, 1996
Second Reading:   January 13, 1997
Adopted this 13th day of January, 1997
   E.R. Wood, Mayor /s/
   E.R. WOOD, MAYOR
   Barbara Baker /s/
   Barbara Baker, CITY CLERK
Prepared by
John G. Wright
City Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-0002
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WARSAW, KENTUCKY.
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Warsaw,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the municipality; and
   Whereas, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law and the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City of Warsaw, KY USA:
   Section 1. That the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Warsaw, Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety,
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this 14th day of June, 2004
Passed on First Reading: June 14, 2004
Adopted by Emergency, Unanimous 6-0-0
Published in Paper: 6-16-04
Recorded by Clerk:  6-16-04
   Travis A. Simpson /s/
   Mayor
Attest:
Carolyn Markaberry /s/  
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WARSAW, KENTUCKY.
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2006 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Warsaw,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the municipality; and
   Whereas, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law and the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City of Warsaw, KY USA:
   Section 1. That the 2006 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Warsaw, Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety,
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this          day of                       , 2007
First Reading:      February 12, 2007
Second Reading:   March 12, 2007
Published in Paper:                                 
                                                     
Travis A. Simpson, Mayor
                                                      
Carolyn Marksberry, City Clerk
ORDINANCE 2014-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WARSAW, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2013 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Warsaw,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, It is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City of Warsaw:
   SECTION 1. That the 2013 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Warsaw, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this __________ day of __________, 2014.
Passed on First Reading      March 10, 2014
Adopted on Second Reading      _____________
Signed by Mayor         _____________
Published in the Paper         _____________
                                                                                   
                              Mayor
ATTEST:
_________________________
Carolyn Marksberry, City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2017-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WARSAW, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Warsaw,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, It is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City of Warsaw:
   SECTION 1. That the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Warsaw, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on First Reading: 6/12/17
Adopted on Second Reading: 7/10/17
Signed by Mayor   _____________
Published in the Paper   _____________
                                                     
   Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Carolyn Marksberry, City Clerk/Treasurer
 
ORDINANCE 2022-02
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WARSAW, IN GALLATIN COUNTY, KENTUCKY,
ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2021 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Warsaw,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, It is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WARSAW, IN
GALLATIN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1. That the 202119 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Warsaw, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this ____ day of ____________ 2022
Passed on First Reading: 6/13/22
Passed on Second Reading: _________
                           APPROVED:
                                                                                           
                           CHARLIE FRENCH, Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________ _________________
CAROLYN CALDWELL, City Clerk/Treasurer
DATE OF PUBLICATION:                                      
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Warsaw Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Warsaw irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Gallatin County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilmember. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Warsaw, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban- county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other
public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, city, county, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word- for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, see KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30. MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31. CITY OFFICIALS
      
32. CITY COUNCIL
      
33. FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34. PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35. POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
36. TAXATION
      
37. CITY POLICY
      
38. PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
39.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance. (KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members. (KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
   
31.23   Mayor Pro Tem
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.37   Building Inspector
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
  § 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department of Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department of Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Am. Ord. 1997-005, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. 1998-003, passed 5-4-98)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The nomination and election of candidates for city office shall be in
a nonpartisan election and there shall be no nonpartisan primary election for
the nomination of candidates to city office regardless of the number of
candidates running for each office as authorized by KRS 83A.045(2)(b).
      (1)   All candidates for elected city offices shall file their nomination
papers with the Gallatin County Clerk no later than 68 days before the day
fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a regular election in order to be entitled
to appear on the ballot.
      (2)   All nomination papers shall be filed not later than 4:00 p.m.,
local time, when filed on the last day on which such papers are permitted to be
filed.
      (3)   The election of candidates to elected city offices shall be
governed by the provisions of this section and by the applicable provisions of
KRS Chapter 83A and Chapters 116 to 121.
      (4)   Candidates for city office shall not be required to make pre-
election reports to the Registry of Election Finance pursuant to KRS Chapter
121.180 but shall be required to make post- election reports within 30 days
after the regular election in November.
      (5)   The number of candidates equal to the number of city offices to be
filed who receive the highest number of votes cast in the regular election for
each city office shall be elected.
      (6)   All candidates shall be subject to all other applicable election
laws pursuant to KRS Chapters 83A and 116 to 121.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 1-24-89)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G) The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices may
be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (1),(2),(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor. (KRS 83A.040
(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic email address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. (KRS 83A.040(2)
(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council. (KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply. (KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
§ 31.23 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   The position of Mayor Pro Tem shall be created pursuant to KRS
83A.130.
   (B)   The positions of Mayor Pro Tem shall be filled by the Council member
receiving the largest vote totals in the preceding election.
(Ord. 1999.003, passed 3-8-99)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
   City Clerk-Treasurer
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” in accordance with KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall;
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; and
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk- Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk-Treasurer unless
such person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.37 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of Building Inspector.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Building Inspector shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Enforcement of all state laws relating to building inspection.
      (2)   Enforcement of all city ordinances relating to building inspection.
      (3)   Enforcement of all administrative regulations relating to building
inspection.
      (4)   Direct the preparation of and maintain the necessary records and
files.
      (5)   Conduct the necessary correspondence, requisition supplies, and
recommend the purchase of necessary equipment.
      (6)   Meet with and answer questions for the public.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Building Inspector unless
the person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
Cross-references:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk-Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section. (KRS
83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the Councilmember’s
electronic mail address and includes also the Councilmember’s handwritten
signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS
83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall
not be submitted or undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council's
action is given to the Mayor. The Mayor may review any statement before
submission to the Council and to appear personally or through his designee on
behalf of any department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Monday of
each month at                p.m. prevailing time, at the current municipal
building located at 303 E. Main Street, Warsaw, Kentucky.
(Ord. 120.1, passed 1-4-82)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Am. Ord. 2013-02, passed 4-8-13)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Warsaw.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk-Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK-TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk- Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Adoption of city investment policy
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Procurement Policy and Procedure
   
33.25   Conditions and procedures for delegation of purchasing authority
   
33.26   Modification and termination of contracts
   
33.27   Conditions and procedures under which purchases may be made by others
than competitive sealed bids
   
33.28   Rejection of bids, consideration of alternate bids, and waiver of
informalities in offers
   
33.29   Confidentially of technical data and trade secrets
   
33.30   Multiple awards
   
33.31   Small purchases procedures
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (1)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenue from
all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city, including
all principle interest due on debt, for the budget year.
      (2)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain:
         (a)   A budget message, as specified in division (G) below of this
section.
         (b)   A budget summary, as specified in division (4) below, supported
by:
            1. An estimate of all anticipated revenues of the city compared to
previous years, as specified in division (5) below.
            2. An estimate of fund balance carry-forward, as specified in
division (6) below.
            3. An estimate of anticipated Transfers, as specified in division
(6) below.
            4. Proposed expenditures compared to previous years, as specified
in division (7) below.
   The total of anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total of
proposed expenditures.
      (4)   At the head of the annual budget proposal there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, and proposed expenditures by program, function,
activity, or objectives of the city, in such a manner as to present a simple
and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget components.
      (5)   In parallel columns opposite the several items of anticipated
revenue there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually received during the next
preceding fiscal year; and
         (b)   The total of the amount of each item actually received to the
time of preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus anticipated receipts
for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as
possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item anticipated to be received during the
budget year, estimated as accurately as possible.
      (6)   Each fund balance available for appropriation shall be limited to
the amount by which assets are estimated to exceed liabilities at the beginning
of the budget year.
      (7)   Any anticipated excess revenues, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent such excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the Annual budget proposal.
      (8)   In parallel columns, opposite the several items of proposed
expenditures, there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually expended during the next
preceding fiscal year; and
         (b)   The total of the amount actually expended to the time of
preparation of the annual budget proposal plus the expenditures for the
remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item to be appropriated for the budget year.
(Ord. 221.2, passed - - )
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M) No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audits shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the general purpose financial
statements of all governmental, proprietary and fiduciary funds of the city;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS Ch. 424
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (F)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) above, the city may submit a
written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local Government
on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The Department for
Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on or before the
applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for Local
Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond the
control of the city. Extensions granted under this division (F) shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (G) below shall apply.
   (G)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) and (F)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (F) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (H)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 ADOPTION OF CITY INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The City Council for the City of Warsaw hereby adopts the following
investment policy and strategy with respect to the investment of all funds, as
required by KRS 66.480.
   (A)   The city hereby authorizes the City Clerk to invest the city's funds
pursuant to the terms and conditions of applicable statutes and this section:
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is
taken either directly or through an authorized custodian. The investments may
be accomplished through repurchase agreements reached with sources including,
but not limited to, national or state banks chartered in Kentucky;
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including but not limited to:
         (a)   United States Treasury;
         (b)   Export-Import Bank of the United States;
         (c)   Farmers Home Administration;
         (d)   Government National Mortgage Corporation and
         (e)   Merchant Marine bonds;
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
         (b)   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
         (c)   Bank for Cooperatives;
         (d)   Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
         (e)   Federal Land Banks;
         (f)   Federal Home Loan Banks;
         (g)   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
         (h)   Tennessee Valley Authority;
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest bearing account
of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are collateralized to
the extent uninsured by any obligations permitted by KRS 41.240(4);
      (5)   Uncollateralized certificates of deposit issued by any bank or
savings and loan institution rated in one of the three highest categories by a
nationally recognized rating agency.
      (6)   Bankers' acceptances of banks rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency;
      (7)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized rating agency.
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities;
      (9)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency; and
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds, each of which shall have the following
characteristics:
         (a)   The mutual funds shall be an open-ended diversified investment
company registered under the Federal Reserve Investment company registered
under the Federal Investment Company act of 1940 as amended;
         (b)   The management company of the investment company shall have been
in operation for at least five years,
         (c)   All of the securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible
investments under this policy.
   (B)   The investment authority outlined above shall be subject to the
following limitations:
      (1)   An investment authorized by (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8) or (A)
(9) herein shall not be made by the City Clerk without prior approval by the
City Council.
      (2)   The amount of money invested at any time by the county in one or
more of the categories of investments authorized by (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)
(8) and (A)(9) of this section shall not exceed 20% of the total amount of
money invested by the city;
      (3)   The city shall not purchase any investment on a margin basis or
through the use of any similar leveraging technique; and
      (4)   The City Clerk shall not make any investment where by stated
maturity is greater than five years from the date of purchase without prior
approval by the fiscal court.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts the following standard for written agreement
pursuant to which investments are made:
      (1)   The City Clerk and the Mayor shall review and execute all written
agreements pursuant to which investments authorized by this policy are made.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall maintain copies for review by the City Council
of all such written agreements for all investments of the city.
   (D)   The city hereby adopts the following procedures for monitoring
controls, deposit or retention of investments and collateral:
      (1)   When collateral is required for city funds invested at a bank or
savings and loan pursuant to (A)(4) of this policy, the collateral shall be
held by a third-party custodian;
      (2)   The City Clerk shall determine for each investment made pursuant to
this policy whether to take possession of the legal document evidencing the
investment or to leave it with an authorized custodian.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall make monthly reports to the City Council on
the status of the city's invested funds; and
      (4)   The City Clerk shall abide by all monitoring controls recommended
by the city's auditor unless directed otherwise by the City of Warsaw.
   (E)   The city hereby adopts the following standard for diversification of
investments, including diversification with respect to the types of investments
and firms with which the city transacts business;
      (1)   Because of the negligible credit risk associated with the
investments authorized hereunder in (A)(1), (2), (3) and (4), there shall not
be a required diversification as to these types of investments for investments
authorized hereunder in (A)(5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) the required
diversification as to type of investment is set out herein. Investment in
mutual funds authorized hereunder are subject to the above-stated
diversification requirements for the types of investments held in the mutual
funds;
      (2)   The City Clerk shall utilize appropriate strategies for laddering
the maturities of the city's investments in order to provide protection against
interest rate fluctuations and to meet the city's liquidity needs;
      (3)   The City Council shall select the investment firms with which the
city shall transact business and in making its election will take into
consideration the investment firm's experience, the capitalization of the
investment firm, or any other factors the City Council deems appropriate in
determining whether the firm is capable and qualified to transact business with
the city. The Council as part of its election process shall determine whether
it is desirable to diversity the investment firms with which the City Council
transacts business.
(Ord. 1995-003, passed 3-13-95)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
PROCUREMENT POLICY AND PROCEDURE
§ 33.25 CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR DELEGATION OF PURCHASING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Sealed bids. All items, which have been advertised for competitive
sealed bids, shall be submitted to the council at its next regular meeting or
at a special meeting. These items shall have the written evaluation of the bids
which concern the awarding of contract and/or contracts to the lowest
responsible/responsive bidder, with due regard to quality of products.
   (B)   Purchasing officials. The Mayor is hereby designated as the Chief
Purchasing Officer for the city. In the absence of the Mayor, an agent of the
Mayor designated by executive order of the Mayor (but excluding any member of
Council) is authorized to act as Purchasing Officer with the authority to enter
into and administer contracts and make written determinations and findings with
respect thereto.
(Ord., passed 3-3-80)
§ 33.26 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Breach of contract. Any contractor who has been determined in writing
by the City Council to be in breach of any of the terms and conditions of a
valid contract (with the city), shall, in the discretion of the Council be
declared in default and such contract may be terminated as a result of such
breach.
   (B)   Default of contract. A default in performance by a contractor for
which a contract may be terminated shall include, but shall not necessarily be
limited to:
      (1)   Failure to perform contract according to its terms, conditions and
specifications;
      (2)   Failure to make delivery within the time specified or according to
a delivery schedule fixed by the contract;
      (3)   Late payment or nonpayment of bills for labor, materials, supplies,
or equipment furnished in connection with a contract for construction services
as evidenced by mechanic's liens filed pursuant to the provisions of KRS
Chapter 376 or letters of indebtedness received from creditors by the
superintendent, or
      (4)   Failure to diligently prosecute the work under a contract for
construction services.
   (C)   Payment or nonpayment of a terminated contract. The city shall not be
liable for any further payment to a contractor under a contract terminated for
the contractor's default, after the date of such default as determined by the
Council except for commodities, supplies, equipment or services delivered and
accepted on or before the date of default and for which payment had not been
made as of the date. The contractor, and/or his surety (if a performance or
payment bond has been required under the contract) shall be jointly and
severally liable to the city for all loss, cost or damage sustained by the city
as a result of the contractor's default; provided, however, that a contractor's
surety liability shall not exceed the final sum specified in the contractor's
bond.
   (D)   Changes or modifications to contracts. All changes or modifications to
contracts for the purchase of commodities, supplies, equipment, and
construction services shall be effected by a written modification of the
contract which shall be supported by a written determination (by the purchasing
official) documenting the reason and basis for the change and modification to
the contract. Any change or modification of the contract which involves a cost
increase or decrease of 10% of the total contract price or $2,500 whichever is
less, shall be submitted to the Council for approval before being implemented.
A copy of the advice of change in order and the supporting documentation
relative to any change or modification to a contract shall be filed and
maintained in the contract file by the Mayor.
(Ord., passed 3-3-80)
§ 33.27 CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES UNDER WHICH PURCHASES MAY BE MADE BY OTHER
THAN COMPETITIVE SEALED BIDS.
   Purchasing officers are authorized to acquire goods, services or
construction through non-competitive negotiations under the following
conditions providing a written determination is made that competitive
negotiation is not feasible and a further determination is made that, at least,
one of the following conditions has been met:
   (A)   The determination of an emergency and details of the procurement. An
emergency condition is a situation which creates a threat to public health,
welfare, or safety such as may arise by reason of floods, storms of lightning
wind or snow, epidemics, riots and equipment failures. The existence of such a
condition creates an immediate need for supplies, services, or construction
that cannot be met through normal procurement procedures and the lack of which
would seriously threaten the functioning of the city government; the
preservation or protection of property; or the health or safety of any person.
When such conditions exist, the Mayor is authorized to purchase through
noncompetitive negotiation. The determination of an emergency and the details
of the procurement involved shall be reported to the Council at its next
regular or special meeting.
   (B)   When there is a single source within a reasonably geographical area of
a product or service to be procured, noncompetitive negotiation is authorized.
When a particular necessity is temporarily unavailable on the market and the
Mayor makes a written determinate to that effect, the Mayor shall have the
authority to treat the situation as if there were a single source of services
or product to proceed to procure the same by noncompetitive negotiation.
Example: Gasoline, heavy equipment repair parts.
   (C)   A contract for the services of a licensed professional. Such contracts
must be recommended by the Mayor and approved by the Council. (Ord., passed 3-
3-80)
   (D)   The contract is for the purpose of perishable foods, such as meat,
fish, poultry, egg products, fresh vegetables, and fresh fruits;
   (E)   The contract is for replacement parts where the need cannot be
reasonably anticipated and stockpiling is not feasible;
   (F)   The contract is for proprietary items for resale;
   (G)   In school districts the contract relates to an enterprise in which the
buying or selling by students is a part of the educational experience;
   (H)   The contract or purchase is for expenditures made on authorized trips
outside of the boundaries of the local public agency;
   (I)   The contract is for the purchase of supplies which are sold at public
auction or by receiving sealed bids;
   (J)   The contract is for group life insurance, group health and accident
insurance, group professional liability insurance, worker's compensation
insurance, and unemployment insurance;
   (K)   The contract is for sale of supplies at reduced prices that will
afford a purchase at savings to the local public agency; or
   (L)   The contract is with a private real estate developer and contains a
requirement:
      (1)   That the developer increase the size or otherwise improve the
collection capacity of the sanitary sewer or storm water pipe serving the
affected private real estate development; and
      (2)   That the local public agency pay only the proportional cost of
increasing the size, or otherwise improving the collection capacity, of the
sanitary sewer or storm water pipe over the original collection capacity.
(KRS 45A.380)
§ 33.28 REJECTION OF BIDS, CONSIDERATION OF ALTERNATE BIDS AND WAIVER OF
INFORMALITIES IN OFFERS.
   The conditions for bidding shall be applicable to and incorporated in all
invitations for bids. Failure to comply with such conditions shall be cause for
rejection of the bid. The Council retains the right to waive any formalities on
offers.
(Ord., passed 3-3-80)
§ 33.29 CONFIDENTIALITY OF TECHNICAL DATA AND TRADE SECRETS.
   As permitted under KRS 61.878(1)(b) and §
34.12 of this Code of Ordinances, technical data and trade secrets information
submitted by actual and prospective bidders are exceptions to the open records
requirements and should be treated confidentially.
(Ord., passed 3-3-80)
§ 33.30 MULTIPLE AWARDS.
   The purchasing officer is hereby authorized, when feasible, to advertise for
bids, at a discount from a price list or catalog. The conditions shall state
that multiple awards may be made. When such multiple awards are made, purchases
at the contract discount may be made from such price lists or catalog during
the period of the contract shall disqualify such items for purchase.
(Ord., passed 3-3-80)
§ 33.31 SMALL PURCHASE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Small purchases are hereby authorized for the procurement of necessary
supplies, services, or construction when the cost or quality is such that any
possible savings of public funds would not justify the time and expense
necessary to follow the procedures under KRS 45A.365 (competitive sealed
bidding).
      (1)   Purchasing requirements shall not be fragmented or artificially
divided to avoid use of other source selection methods. Categories of supplies,
services, or construction, reasonably anticipated to be required during a
fiscal year shall be considered to be one procurement for the purpose of small
purchase procedures. The contract may be for any period of time that will
provide the most-beneficial market price to the city, provided no time period
shall be fixed for the sole purpose of avoiding the requirements of competitive
sealed bidding. In determining whether supplies, services, or construction are
normally supplied as a unit, the test is not whether such supplies, services or
construction are furnished by a particular vendor, but rather whether supplies,
services, or construction are closely related in their function and use.
      (2)   Only those employees of the city who have been recommended by the
Mayor (see §
33.25(B)) and a approved by the Council shall be authorized to make small
purchases.
      (3)   Small purchases for construction services costing $1500 or less,
and $500 or less for other purposes, may be made from any available source of
supply without obtaining quotations. Small purchases in excess of the above
limits, but less than $7500, may be made only after informally obtaining three
or more price quotations from responsible sources.
      (4)   KRS 45A.345 through KRS 45A.455 shall apply to all small purchases
and are incorporated herewith for specific notice to small purchasing agents,
vendors and the general public.
   (B)   Definitions of terms used in KRS 45A.445 to 45A.460. As used in KRS
45A.445 to 45A.460, the following terms shall have the meanings given, unless
the context indicates otherwise:
      (1)   CONSPICUOUSLY. Written in such special or distinctive format,
print, or manner that a reasonable person against whom it is to operate ought
to have noticed it.
      (2)   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Any information which is available to an
employee only because of his status as an employee of the local public agency
and it is not a matter of public knowledge or available to the public on
request.
      (3)   DEBARMENT. The disqualification of a person to receive incitations
for bids or requests for proposals or the award of a contract by the local
public agency for a specified period of time.
      (4)   FINANCIAL INTEREST.
         (a)   Ownership os any interest or involvement in any relationship
from which, or as a result of which, a person has, within the past three years,
received or is presently or in the future entitled to receive more than $1,000
per year, or its equivalent; or
         (b)   Ownership of more than 10% interest in any business; or
         (c)   Holding a position in a business such as an officer, director,
trustee, partner, employee, or the like, or holding any position of management.
      (5)   GRATUITY. A payment, loan, subscription, advance, deposit of money,
services, or anything of more than $50 in value, present or promised, unless
consideration of substantially equal or greater value is received.
      (6)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, children, grandchildren, parents,
grandparents, brothers, sisters, and such other relatives as designated by the
local public agency.
      (7)   OFFICIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Direct administrative or operating
authority, whether intermediate or final, either exercisable alone or with
others, wither personally or through subordinates, to approve, disapprove, or
otherwise direct local public agency actions.
      (8)   SUSPENSION. The disqualification of any person to receive
invitations for bids or requests for proposals or to be awarded a contract by a
local public agency for a temporary period, pending the completion of an
investigation and any legal proceedings that may ensue.
   (C)   Statement of public policy.
      (1)   Public employment is a public trust.
      (2)   It is the policy and purpose of KRS 45A.345 to 45A.460 to promote
and balance the object of protecting government integrity and o$ facilitating
the recruitment and retention of personnel needed by local public agencies by
prescribing essential restrictions against conflict of interest without
creating unnecessary barriers to public service and by facilitating development
of fair and competitive access to local public agency purchasing by responsible
contractors.
      (3)   Employees must discharge their duties and responsibilities fairly
and impartially. They should also maintain a standard of conduct that will
inspire public confidence in the integrity of the government of all local
public agencies.
      (4)   The following letter shall be included in all invitations to bids,
noncompetitive negotiations as far as price quotes or quotations of discounts
is concerned.
Dear Sirs:
   The following is in accordance with KRS 45A.455:
1.    It shall be a breach of ethical standards for any employee with
procurement authority to participate directly in any proceeding or application;
request for ruling or other determination; claim or controversy; or other
particular matter pertaining to any contract or subcontract and any
solicitations or proposal therefor, in which to his knowledge:
a.    He, or any member of his immediate family has a financial interest
therein; or
b.    A business or organization in which he or any member of his immediate
family has a financial interest as an officer, director, trustee, partner, or
employee, is a party; or
c.    Any other person, business or organization with whom he or any member of
his immediate family is negotiating or has an arrangement concerning
prospective employment is a party. Direct or indirect participation shall
include but not be limited to involvement through decision approval,
disapproval, recommendation, preparation of any part of a purchase request,
influencing the content of any specification or purchase standard, rendering of
advice, investigation, auditing, or in any other advisory capacity.
2.    Is shall be a breach of ethical standards for any person to offer, give
or agree to give any employee or former employee, or for any employee or former
employee to solicit, demand, accept, or agree to accept from another person, a
gratuity or an offer of employment, in connection with any decision, approval,
disapproval, recommendation, preparation of any part of a purchase request,
influencing the content of any specification or purchase standard, rendering of
advice, investigation, auditing or in any other advisory capacity in any
proceeding or application, request for ruling or other determination, claim or
controversy, or other particular matter, pertaining to any contract or
subcontract in any solicitation or proposal therefor.
3.    It is a breach of ethical standards for any payment, gratuity or offer of
employment to be made by or on behalf of a subcontractor under a contract to
the prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor or any person associated
therewith, as an inducement for the award of a subcontract or order.
4.    The prohibition against conflicts of interest and gratuities and
kickbacks shall be conspicuously set forth in every local public agency written
contract and solicitation therefor.
5.    It shall be a breach of ethical standards for any public employee or
former employee knowingly to use confidential information for his actual or
anticipated personal gain, or the actual or anticipated personal gain of any
other person.
   The City of Warsaw and its purchasing officers are in accordance with and
abide by this section of the Model Procurement Code.
Sincerely,
Mayor
City of Warsaw
(Ord., passed 3-3-80)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including the legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH. Means:
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the public records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without written permission of the official
custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city offices,
the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make abstracts and
memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all written public
records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require advance payment
of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
    If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
    The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1. In conjunction with an application for or the administration of
a loan or a grant;
            2. In conjunction with an application for or the administration of
assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Ch.
154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4. For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b) of
this section shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Ch. 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for the person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
government function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
   (E)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him. Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Police Chief; police officers
   
35.03   Payment for services rendered to district court
   
35.04   Carrying concealed weapons
   
35.05   Police Department regulations adopted by reference
   
35.06   Kentucky Law Enforcement Foundation Program (KLEFP)
   
35.07   Racial profiling
   
35.08   City police lockouts
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
§ 35.02 POLICE CHIEF; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such
number of regular police officers as may be authorized by the City Council.
   (B)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will, and may be removed by the Mayor at will except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Police Chief or a regular
police officer unless such person has taken the oath required by section 228 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   Qualifications, training, and compensation shall be as set forth by
ordinance.
§ 35.03 PAYMENT FOR SERVICES RENDERED TO DISTRICT COURT.
   All monies collected by or paid to the Chief of the Police Department or any
officer thereof for services rendered to the Gallatin District Court or any
person pursuant to KRS 95.740, shall be paid into the General Fund of the city
treasury.
(Ord. 120.3, passed 10-8-84)
§ 35.04 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   All police officers employed by the city, may carry concealed deadly
weapons on or about their persons at all times within the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (B)   This section shall constitute the express authority mentioned in KRS
527.020(3).
(Ord. 320.1, passed - - )
§ 35.05 POLICE DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Police Department regulations and procedures contained in the document
entitled City of Warsaw Kentucky Police Policies Revised 2020 and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 1989-230.2, passed 10-9-89; Am. Ord. 2013-07, passed 9-9-2013; Am. Ord.
2020-02, passed 6-8-20; Am. Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-8-21; Am. Ord. 2021-06,
passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 12-12-22; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed - -
23)
§ 35.06 KENTUCKY LAW ENFORCEMENT FOUNDATION PROGRAM (KLEFP).
   (A)   The city declares its intention to participate in the Law enforcement
Foundation Program established by KRS 15.410 through 15.520.
   (B)   Each officer of the city Police Department shall be paid from city
funds an annual salary of at least the minimum federal wage, as required by KRS
15.440(2), based on a standard work year of 2,080 hours.
   (C)   (1)   Each officer employed on or after July 1, 1982 shall, within one
year of his date of employment, complete a basic training course of at least
400 hours' duration at a school certified or recognized by the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Council.
      (2)   Each officer employed on or after July 1, 1982 shall, within one
year of his date of employment, complete a basis training course of at least
400 hours' duration at a school certified or recognized by the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Council.
   (D)   Each officer, whether originally employed before or after July 1,
1982, shall successfully complete each year an in-service training course of 40
hour's duration appropriate to his rank and responsibility at a school
certified or recognized by the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council. Each officer
shall receive in each calendar year five day's time off with pay for the
purpose of taking the required in-service training.
   (E)   No officer shall have his base salary reduced or be denied a normal
salary increase to which he is otherwise entitled because of the salary
incentive payments provided by the Kentucky Crime Commission under KRS 15.410
through 15.520.
   (F)   The Police Department and each officer there of shall comply with all
provisions of law applicable to local police, including the transmission of
data to the Bureau of Criminal Information and Statistics as required by KRS
17.150.
   (G)   The Police Chief shall prepare or cause to be prepared such quarterly
and other reports as may be reasonably required by the Kentucky Crime
Commission to facilitate administration of the Fund Law Enforcement Foundation
and further the purposes of KRS 15.410 through 15.520.
   (H)   The Police Department and each officer thereof shall further comply
with all reasonable rules and regulations appropriate to the size and location
of this city's Police Department, issued by the Kentucky Crime Commission to
facilitate the administration of the Fund and further the purposes of KRS
15.410 through 15.520.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit in an appropriate account which
can be identified separately from all other sources, all monies received under
KRS 15.410 through 15.520.
      (2)   Upon receipt of any monies under KRS 15.410 through 15.520, the
City Treasurer shall pay to each police officer the full amount received on
behalf of that officer, giving to each officer a check stub or receipt on which
the gross amount of monies paid to him under KRS 15.410 through 15.520 is
included and identified.
      (3)   All financial records relating to monies received under KRS 15.410
through 15.520 shall be retained for a period of three years and until the
completion of an audit approved by the Kentucky Crime Commission and the United
States Law Enforcement Assistance Administration.
§ 35.07 RACIAL PROFILING.
   (A)   Racial profiling prohibited.
      (1)   The protection of, and the preservation of the constitutional and
civil rights of individuals remains one of the paramount concerns of government
and law enforcement in particular.
      (2)   To safeguard these rights, law enforcement personnel shall not
engage in any behavior or activity that constitutes racial profiling. The
decision of an officer to make or detain an individual, or conduct a search,
shall not be solely motivated by consideration of race, color, or ethnicity.
Stops, detentions, or searches shall be based on articulable reasonable
suspicions, observed violations of law or probable cause, and shall comply with
accepted constitutional and legal provisions, and with the Code and Cannon of
Ethics adopted by the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council through Peace Officer
Professional Standards.
   (B)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      RACIAL PROFILING. A process that motivates the initiation of a stop,
detention, or search which is solely motivated by consideration of an
individual’s actual or perceived race, color, ethnicity, or making
discretionary decisions during the execution of law enforcement duties based on
the above stated considerations. Nothing shall preclude an officer from relying
on an individual’s actual or perceived race, color, or ethnicity as an element
in the identification of a suspect or in the investigation of a crime, a
possible crime or violation of law or statute.
   (C)   Training.  All officers shall complete the Kentucky Law Enforcement
Council approved training related to racial profiling. Such training shall
comply with Federal Law, state statutory provisions, case law and other
applicable laws, regulations, and established rules.
   (D)   Discipline. An officer who violates a provision of this policy shall
be subject to the agency’s disciplinary procedures, which shall be consistent
with other penalties imposed for similar officer misconduct.
(Ord. 2001-0009, passed 12-10-01)
Cross-reference:
   Vehicle Stop Reporting Policy, see §§
71.60 -
71.64
§ 35.08 CITY POLICE LOCKOUTS.
   (A)   As a courtesy to citizens and visitors in the city, a member of the
City Police Department may, when requested by the owner and/or operator, unlock
a vehicle door lock by means of a “slim jim/slim unlock reach tool”, or similar
device or tool.
   (B)   Neither the city, the Police Department, or the police officer, shall
be liable or responsible for any damage caused or claimed to be caused by the
unlocking. The owner and/or operator of the vehicle shall sign a waiver and
release of liability before the officer proceeds to undertake the unlocking.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 6-11-12)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   County assessment adopted
   
36.02   Due date
   
36.03   Delinquency
   
36.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
36.05   Disposition of funds
   
36.06   Ad valorem tax on lands, improvements, and personal property
   
36.07   Bank Franchise and Local Deposit Tax
§ 36.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual Gallatin County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Ord. 220.11, passed 9-10-90)
§ 36.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due on
December 31.
(Ord. 220.11, passed 9-10-90)
§ 36.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid plus 1% per month
interest until paid. The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and
expenses incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the
delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the fifth
class.
(Ord. 220.11, passed 9-10-90)
§ 36.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Gallatin County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 36.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 36.06 AD VALOREM TAX ON LANDS, IMPROVEMENTS, AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   An ad valorem tax of $0.126 for each $100 worth of property is
hereby levied on all lands, improvements, and personal property, tangible or
intangible held or owned by any person, firm, company, corporation or
association in his, hers, or its name or as fiduciary or agent and subject to
taxation under the laws of the State of Kentucky, including all property and
franchises herefore and hereafter assesses by the Gallatin County Property
Valuation Administrator, Railroad Commission, State Tax Commission and State
Board of Evaluation and Assessment. An ad valorem tax of $0.035 per $100 worth
of personal property is hereby levied on all personal property.
      (2)   There is levied a tax of $0.035 on each $100 worth of
unmanufactured products not in the hands of the producer, or in the hands of
the agent of any producer in the City of Warsaw, Kentucky.
      (3)   All of such taxes shall be paid to the Treasurer of the City of
Warsaw, Kentucky.
      (4)   The aforementioned ad valorem tax is levied for the purpose of
paying officers and employees of the City of Warsaw expenses of the Fire
Department, street repairs, construction and reconstruction of streets, as well
as the current expenses of the City of Warsaw, Kentucky and shall be known as
the general fund for the purpose of paying all legal claims arising from the
City of Warsaw, Kentucky.
   (B)   All taxes are due by December 31, 2024. All unpaid taxes as of January
1, 2025 shall become delinquent and a penalty of 10% will be added to the tax
bill plus 1% per month interest until paid.
   (C)   The tax liability imposed herein shall be based upon the assessed
value of the property owned by the taxpayer on January 1, 2024, or as
determined by the Gallatin County Property Valuation Administrator.
   (D)   Each taxpayer shall be liable for all taxes imposed on the basis of
the property owned by the taxpayer on January 1, 2024.
(Ord. 1997-19, passed 9-8-97; Am. Ord. 1998-006, passed 9-14-98; Am. Ord. 2000-
0009, passed 9-11-00; Am. Ord. 2001-0006, passed 8-27-01; Am. Ord. 2002- ,
passed 1-1-02; Am. Ord. 2003- 0003, passed 9-8-03; Am. Ord. 2004-0004, passed
9-13-04; Am. Ord. 2005-09, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 9-11-06;
Am. Ord. 2007-07, passed 8-27-07; Am. Ord. 2008-07, passed 9-15-08; 2009-02,
passed 9-14-09; Am. Ord. 2010-06, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-
21-11; Am. Ord. 2012-09, passed 9-10-12; Am. Ord. 2013-09, passed 9-23-13; Am.
Ord. 2014-05, passed 9-8-14; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 8-11-15; Am. Ord. 2016-
03, passed 9-4-16; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2018-094, passed
9-10-18; Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-16-20; Am.
Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-13-21; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-18-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
07, passed 9-11-23; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed 9-9-24)
§ 36.07 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions,” as defined in
KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the City of Warsaw,
Kentucky for the 1997 tax year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the
rate of 0.025% on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by
such financial institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1997 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes that for all subsequent years. For the 1997 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established:
   The City of Warsaw will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
that May 1, 1998. Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31,
1998 or without the discount by June 30, 1998.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1997 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established.
   The City of Warsaw will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
that December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2%
discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of
each year.
   (D)   The City of Warsaw, Kentucky shall have a lien for taxes upon any and
all property subject to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be
superior to all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before June 30, 1998 for tax year 1997, or which are not paid before January
31, for all subsequent years tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per annum.
   (F)   All monies collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of proper expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 1996-009, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 1997-011, passed 5-12-97)
CHAPTER 37: CITY POLICY
Section
   
37.01   Use of City Hall
   
37.02   Residential Antidisplacement and Relocation Assistance Plan
   
37.03   Adoption of Ethics Code by reference
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 USE OF CITY HALL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons, corporation,
company, partnership, or association to occupy or use the city hall for any
purpose not directly related to the health, welfare, education, recreation,
government, or entertainment of the general public of the city.
   (B)   The City Council may grant permission to use the city hall for any
specific purpose to any person or group of persons that proves to the
satisfaction of the City Council that is has in force insurance that would pay
any liability arising from any personal injury or property damage occurring at
or in connection with its use of the city hall.
   (C)   Any person or group of persons granted permission to use the city hall
in accordance with this section shall deposited with the City Clerk-Treasurer a
check for $25 payable to the City of Warsaw, Kentucky to cover the cost of
damage and clean-up. Said deposit to be refunded if the person or persons
return the building to the state of repairs and cleanliness prevailing
immediately prior to usage of the building by person or group of persons.
(Ord. 110.3, passed 3-3-80) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.02 RESIDENTIAL ANTIDISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   The elements of the Residential Antidisplacement and Relocation Assistance
Plan under Section 104(d) or the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
as required by all 1988 Community Development block Grant recipients having
been duly adopted by the City Council on September 11, 1989, all of which is
incorporated herein by reference as if herein fully set out, the same shall be
and are hereby adopted and approved as The Warsaw Residential Antidisplacement
and Relocation Assistance Plan, a true copy of the plan which is attached to
Ordinance 930-2 as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 930-2, passed 9-11-89)
§ 37.03 ADOPTION OF ETHICS CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The Ethics Code for the City of Warsaw is hereby adopted by reference as if
fully set out herein. Copies of the Ethics Code can be found in the Office of
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1994-011, passed 12-12-94)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
37.01 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 50 days, or both.
(Ord. 110.3, passed 3-3-80)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 38.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Warsaw Employee Handbook, and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully
set forth herein.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-11-24)
CHAPTER 39: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
39.01   Purpose
   
39.02   Powers
   
39.03   Board membership
   
39.04   Meetings, organization of the Board
   
39.05   Enforcement proceedings
   
39.06   Hearing, notice; and final order
   
39.07   Appeals
   
39.08   Ordinance civil fine schedule
   
39.09   Liens, fines, charges and fees
   
39.10   Civil remedies
   
39.11   State statues adopted by reference
§ 39.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect, promote and improve the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens residing in the city by creating the city
Code Enforcement Board that shall have the power to issue remedial orders and
impose civil fines in order to provide an equitable, expeditious, inexpensive
and effective method of ensuring compliance with the ordinances and codes of
the city.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.02 POWERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Code Enforcement Board, which shall have
all powers and duties granted pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 and related
statutes, and all powers and duties granted in this Code Enforcement Board
chapter and related ordinances.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to issue remedial orders and impose
civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a violation of the
ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (C)   The Board shall also have the following powers:
      (1)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings;
      (2)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of
an ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
      (3)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its
hearings (subpoenas issued by the Board may be served by any Code Enforcement
Officer or as otherwise provided in the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure);
      (4)   To take testimony under oath (the chairman of the Board shall have
the authority to administer oaths to witnesses prior to their testimony before
the Board on any matter);
      (5)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce; and
      (6)   To impose civil fines as authorized by ordinance on any person
found to have violated any ordinance which the Board is authorized to enforce.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.03 BOARD MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Warsaw Code Enforcement Board shall consist of five members and
two alternates appointed by the Mayor with approval of City Council.
   (B)   The terms of the members and alternate members of the Board shall be
for three years.
   (C)   However, the terms of the initial Board members and alternate members
shall be staggered as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   Two members shall be appointed for a term of two years;
      (3)   Two members shall be appointed for a term of three years;
      (4)   One alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year; and
      (5)   One alternate member shall be appointed for a term of two years.
   (D)   Membership requirements, vacancies, removal and oaths of members shall
be as required by statute. Each member of the Board shall have resided within
the boundaries of the city for a period of at least one year prior to the date
of the member's appointment and shall reside there throughout the term in
office. Board members must take the oath of office prescribed in Section 228 of
the Kentucky Constitution and as required by KRS 68.8811.
   (E)   The City Council may provide compensation, reimbursement for expenses
and education of members as it may from time to time order.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency or willful neglect of duty.
   (G)   No member of the Board may hold any elected or appointed office, paid
or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.04 MEETINGS, ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Board meetings shall be held as necessary to enforce all civil
offenses.
      (2)   The Mayor may assign a monthly date and time for the Board to meet
on a routine basis; or meetings may be scheduled as required by the business of
the Board.
   (B)   Organization of the Board. The Board shall, upon the initial
appointment of its members, and annually thereafter, elect a chair from among
its members, who shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board shall
select one of their members to preside in place of the chair and exercise the
power of the Chair.
   (C)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum. An
affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be necessary for
any official action to be taken.
   (D)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board and the vote of
each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.05 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Board shall be initiated by the
issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer has reasonable cause to believe, based on his or her personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance or
code provision, a citation may be issued by a Code Enforcement Officer. In lieu
of an immediate citation, a Notice of Violation may be issued to the violator
allowing the violator a specified period to remedy the violation without fine
or sanction. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy the violation within
the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a
citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances or codes when there is reason to
believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety and welfare or, if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of
the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of the issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed or discovered;
      (4)   Brief facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the ordinance number violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the violation.
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation and that the determination that the
violation was committed shall be final.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board and the city by delivering a
copy of the citation to City Clerk.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine as set forth in the citation or requesting, in writing, a hearing before
the Code Enforcement Board to contest the citation. The request for a hearing
shall be delivered to the City Clerk's Office. The request shall include the
name and address of the person requesting the hearing so Warsaw may notify the
person of the hearing. If the person fails to respond to the citation within
seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to
contest the citation and the determination that a violation was committed shall
be considered final.
   (G)   If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and shall impose the appropriate civil fine
set forth for in the citation. A copy of the final order shall be served on the
person found in violation of a city code or ordinance by certified mail, return
receipt requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving the order at the
person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who is
18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the order.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.06 HEARING, NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted at the next regularly
prescribed time for the Board to meet or the subsequent meeting date.
   (B)   The person requesting a hearing shall be notified, at the address
provided in the request for hearing, not less than seven days before the date
set for the hearing of the hearing time, date and place.
   (C)   Notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt requested; by
personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of
residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final. In this event, the
Board shall enter a final order determining that a violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine set forth in the citation.
   (E)   All testimony shall be taken under oath. Formal rules of evidence do
not apply, but fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the
proceedings. The Board shall take testimony from the Code Enforcement Officer,
the alleged offender, and any witnesses to the alleged violation offered by the
Code Enforcement Officer or the alleged offender. The Board shall receive only
relevant and material evidence. All evidence received shall be given such
weight as the Board deems it is entitled after consideration of any objections
that may be made. The Board shall receive such evidence that a reasonable mind
might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
   (F)   The hearing shall be recorded. A request for a copy of the recording
of the hearing must be made in writing. The requesting party must pay a
reasonable fee for the recording as determined by the City Clerk's Office. The
Board has no obligation to preserve recordings beyond 30 days of the hearing
date.
   (G)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation has occurred. If it is determined that no violation has
occurred, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
imposing the appropriate fine and/or remedy for the violation.
   (H)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing and include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to
the person named in the citation. If the person named in the citation is not
present when the final order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the
violator at the address indicated in the request for a hearing by certified
mail, return receipt requested, by personal delivery, or by leaving a copy of
the order at that person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who has been informed of
the contents of the order.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be
made to the county District Court within 30 days of the date the order is
issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy
of the Code Enforcement Board's order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set forth in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement
Board's order shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.08 ORDINANCE CIVIL FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city Code Enforcement
Officer and Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division and
in accordance with the citation shall apply.
 
Each Section Violated 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
                      $10 to $100 $30 to $300 $90 to $900
 
   (B)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Board is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Code Board:
 
Each Section Violated 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
                      $20 to $200 $60 to $600 $180 to $1,800
 
   (C)   Each section of a code or ordinance violated shall be considered a
separate finable offense. If two or more sections of a code or ordinance are
violated the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation.
Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense without
issuance of a separate citation.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Board is hereby authorized and directed to
determine a civil penalty schedule within the civil penalty ranges shown in
divisions (A) and (B) herein.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.09 LIENS, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   Warsaw shall, pursuant to KRS 65.8835, possess a lien on property
owned by the person found by a final, non-appealable order of the Code
Enforcement Board or by a final judgment of a court of law if the Board's
decision has been appealed, to have committed a violation, for all fines
assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest at the legal rate until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.10 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   In addition to the imposition of a lien, the city may institute other civil
action and seek an injunction or monetary damages to enforce its ordinances and
collect the debts arising from the fines imposed by the Code Enforcement Board.
Any person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
§ 39.11 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All of the terms, conditions and procedures of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839
relating to the organization and powers of the Board, enforcement, procedure,
appeals and other matters are hereby adopted by the city and incorporated
herein by reference as if fully rewritten.
(Ord. 2004-0005, passed 9-13-04)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Use of garbage collection service required
   
50.04   Frequency and times of collection
   
50.05   Container requirements
   
50.06   Fees
   
50.07   Use of revenues
   
50.08   Franchised services
   
50.09   Dumping or burning garbage
   
50.10   Collection rates for commercial, industrial and residential accounts
   
50.11   Commercial, office and business container regulations
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of maintaining healthy and sanitary conditions within the
city, there is hereby established a garbage collection and disposal system.
Said system shall consist of the collection of garbage from each of the homes
and businesses within the city and the disposal of same.
(Ord. 830.1, passed - - )
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAMILY UNIT. The premises or part of the premises used by one family.
Apartment buildings shall be considered to house as many FAMILY UNITS as there
are apartments.
   GARBAGE. Refuse and waste matters of all kinds, including wet garbage,
ashes, discarded cans, bottles, papers, and other materials.
(Ord. 830.1, passed - - )
§ 50.03 USE OF GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED.
   Use of the city garbage collection and disposal system shall be mandatory
for all persons and businesses within the city. No person, partnership, firm,
or corporation shall dispose of, or attempt to dispose of garbage in any other
manner, nor shall they be permitted to allow it to collect upon and lie about
their premises. Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation who fails to
place his garbage in proper containers for collection by the collector, or
permits his garbage to be strewn about and on the streets or other public ways
of the city shall, upon conviction, be fined as set forth in §
50.99. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 830.1, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 FREQUENCY AND TIMES OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Garbage collections shall be made at least once weekly for both
residences and businesses and more often for businesses if the Mayor determines
the necessity of such and includes additional collections in the schedule of
times for collection.
   (B)   The Mayor shall fix the times when garbage is to be collected and
shall make other regulations as are necessary from time to time for the
efficient collection of garbage.
(Ord. 830.1, passed - - )
§ 50.05 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each user of the garbage collection system shall provide suitable
receptacles to contain garbage. All wet garbage shall be placed in substantial
containers not subject to change by moisture. These receptacles and containers
shall be placed at the curb in front of the users property on the dates when
collections are to made in the area of users residence, or business, in
sufficient time to permit the collector of garbage to collect same. (Ord.
830.1, passed - - )
   (B)   In order for any person or business within the city to receive the
service of garbage pickup by the party contracting with the city to provide the
service, all garbage to be picked up shall, at the time of pickup, be placed at
or near the public roadway abutting or nearest to the property served in
securely closed plastic garbage bags or metal dumpsters, or metallic or hard
plastic garbage containers or other containers which are solid in structure,
particularly the bottom of the container, so that the container when filled
with garbage may be lifted and its contents emptied without spillage caused by
collapse or giving way of the body of the container.
   (C)   No person or business shall be entitled to the pick-up of garbage
stored or placed for pickup in a manner not in accordance with divisions (A)
and (B).
   (D)   With regard to businesses, the requirement of division (B) above that
garbage to be picked up be placed at or near the roadway shall be deemed
satisfied if the garbage is placed in a shed or outbuilding readily accessible
to the contractor and which has customarily been the place of garbage pickup
for that business.
(Ord. 840.5, passed 7-8-85)
§ 50.06 FEES.
   Fees shall be in the amounts as established by ordinance of City Council
from time to time.
§ 50.07 USE OF REVENUES.
   All revenues obtained under the provisions of this chapter, either as fees
for the collection, or as fines for the violation of this chapter, shall be
used for the purpose of paying the expenses of maintaining the city government,
including the contract charges for garbage collection and disposal, of the
city.
(Ord. 830.1, passed - - )
§ 50.08 FRANCHISED SERVICES.
   Garbage collection services are handled on a franchise basis.
§ 50.09 DUMPING OR BURNING GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to store, dump, litter, dispose of, burn or
otherwise place any refuse, garbage, dead animals, sewage, toxic substances,
harmful to animal life or humans within the city limits, including trees,
leaves and brush.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized to cause no littering and/or no dumping signs
to be placed at locations that he deems reasonably appropriate.
   (C)   The city or its agent, the City Fire Chief, may authorize in writing,
occasional burying of brush, tree limbs, and other wood products, including old
buildings, in a controlled manner, when deemed necessary, and in the best
interest of the public by the city or its agent.
(Ord. 840.7, passed 7-9-90) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 COLLECTION RATES FOR COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND RESIDENTIAL ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All businesses with a volume of garbage of more than four 30 gallon
bags a week on a regular basis (more than three weeks in a row) are required to
use a dumpster (dumpster shall be contracted directly between the business and
the trash collection service provider) and shall be considered a commercial
account, including all apartments of three or more units. All licensed
businesses that do not require a dumpster shall pay the residential rate plus
$2.40. For each additional unit associated with a small business account, and
for each industrial account, there shall be an additional $2.40 per month
charge (total of $4.80 above the residential rate).
   (B)   The rate for the garbage collection on residential accounts shall be
as follows or until a different rate is established by the city:
      (1)   From January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023: $17.00 per month;
      (2)   From January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024: $17.85 per month; and
      (3)   From January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025: $18.74 per month.
   (C)   A residence is defined as a family unit in §
50.02.
(Ord. 50.10, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 1995-002, passed 2-13-95; Am. Ord. 1997-
004, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. 1998-001, passed 1-12-98; Am. Ord. 2011-01,
passed 1-10-11; Am. Ord. 2014-04, passed 8-11-14; Am. Ord. 2022-07, passed 1-9-
23)
§ 50.11 COMMERCIAL, OFFICE AND BUSINESS CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All dumpsters and garbage collection areas shall be enclosed on at
least three sides or otherwise screened or located in such areas to minimize
their visual impact from public streets, internal circulation areas, and
adjoining properties. Provisions for adequate vehicular access to and from
trash collection areas shall be required as determined by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer. Such screening can include landscaping materials, brick
walls, wooden fences and slatted chain link fences which are a minimum of five
feet tall or one foot higher than the trash container to be screened.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to store, dump, dispose of, or otherwise place
any refuse of any kind in the dumpster or garbage container of another without
the express permission of the actual property owner.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of this chapter is set forth in §
50.99.
(Ord. 1996-001, passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. 1996.005, passed 7-8-96) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined not more than $500 for each
offense.
   (B)   Any person or corporation who violates §
50.09 shall be fined not less than $500 and not more than $1000, and/or
sentenced to serve up to three days in jail. (Ord. 840.7, passed 7-9-90)
   (C)   Violations classified as civil offenses. Any violation of a provision
of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense pursuant to KRS 65.8808
and §§
39.01 et seq., and such classification is intended, and shall be construed, to
provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining compliance with this
chapter, and nothing contained herein, or in §§
39.01 et seq., shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other
means authorized by law, specifically, without limitation, the provisions of
this section.
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $10 to $100 for the first offense, $30 to $300 for the second
offense, and $90 to $900 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
      (2)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at
the discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense;
from $60 to $600 for the second offense; and from $180 to $1,800 for the third,
and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   Each section of this chapter violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of this chapter are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and may be enforced under the same citation. Each day
a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense without issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 11-13-06)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Goals and objectives
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Use of public sewers required
   
51.004   Individual private sewage disposal
   
51.005   Compliance with other regulations
Use of the Wastewater Treatment System
   
51.015   Discharges of unpolluted waters
   
51.016   Discharges to natural outlets or storm sewers
   
51.017   Storm or subsurface water not to be permitted to enter sanitary sewer
   
51.018   Discharges to manholes
   
51.019   Discharges of wastes producing certain results
   
51.020   Prohibited discharges
   
51.021   Discharge of radioactive material prohibited
   
51.022   Wastes from garbage grinders
   
51.023   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.024   Effluent limitations
   
51.025   City approval of facilities not to act as guarantee
   
51.026   Maintenance of pretreatment facilities; report of pollutants
   
51.027   Plans for pretreatment facilities to be submitted
   
51.028   Modifications
   
51.029   More stringent regulations to apply
   
51.030   Permitted actions by the city
   
51.031   Facilities for protection from accidental discharge
   
51.032   Users to notify city of discharges in violation
   
51.033   User to submit time schedule of actions after violation
   
51.034   Violation constitutes public nuisance
   
51.035   Charge for damaging wastewater treatment works
   
51.036   Revocation of permit or termination of service for violation
   
51.037   Permit required prior to filling operations
   
51.038   Tampering with wastewater treatment works
   
51.039   Special agreements
Rates and Charges
   
51.050   Basis for charges
   
51.051   Water and sewer rate schedule
   
51.052   Billing and payment
   
51.053   Availability presumes use
   
51.054   New sanitary sewers
   
51.055   Claims for exemption from charges
   
51.056   Sources of water from other than city supplies
   
51.057   Requests for reduction in sewer charges
   
51.058   Disconnection, other actions, for failure to pay
   
51.059   Billing procedure; delinquency
   
51.060   Payment by check; service fee for returned checks
   
51.061   Special meters
   
51.062   Additional meters
   
51.063   Reserved
   
51.064   Auxiliary meters
   
51.065   No reduction in water charge; exception
Wastewater Discharge Permit
   
51.085   Major contributing industries to obtain wastewater discharge permit
   
51.086   Application
   
51.087   Contents of permit
   
51.088   City may adopt charges and fees
   
51.089   Duration of permit; renewal; notification of charges
   
51.090   Permits not to be reassigned, transferred, or sold
   
51.091   Publication of significant violators
   
51.092   Revocation of permit
   
51.093   Monitoring facilities
   
51.094   Right of entry of city personnel
   
51.095   Public information; confidential information
   
51.096   Approval of facilities by city no guarantee of function
   
51.097   Special agreements
   
51.098   Falsification
Wastewater Treatment System Surcharge
   
51.110   Determination of surcharge
   
51.111   Industrial waste questionnaire
   
51.112   Observation chambers
   
51.113   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
51.114   Results of sampling
   
51.115   Right of entry of city personnel
   
51.116   Annual wastewater treatment system surcharge sample
   
51.117   Exemption from surcharge
   
51.118   Measurement of wastewater by means other than meters
   
51.119   Right to appeal
Plans for Wastewater Treatment Works
   
51.130   Approval of city required
   
51.131   Plan submission requirements for review
   
51.132   Scale of drawings
   
51.133   Elevations
   
51.134   Plans to be signed and sealed by engineer
   
51.135   Plans requiring state approval
Water and Sewers9
   
51.136   Approval void if no action taken within certain length of time
   
51.137   Determination of the amount of sewage
   
51.138   Determination of conduit size and slope
   
51.139   Manhole placement
   
51.140   Distance from street right-of-way
   
51.141   Branch sewer connections
   
51.142   Compression joints
   
51.143   Cast iron pipes; key blocks
   
51.144   Pipes in concrete cradle or encased in concrete
   
51.145   Manhole frames and covers
   
51.146   Special agreements
   
51.147   Workmanship and materials; defects
   
51.148   Leakage check
   
51.149   Sanitary sewers in subdivisions under construction
   
51.150   Inspection by city
   
51.151   Sanitary sewers to meet specifications of city
Building Sewer Connections and Permits
   
51.165   Permits required for connection
   
51.166   Connections of surface runoff or groundwater sources prohibited
   
51.167   Separate building sewer for each building required
   
51.168   Building sewer connections to manholes prohibited
   
51.169   Material standards; minimum grade
   
51.170   Construction requirements
   
51.171   Gravity flow
   
51.172   Owner responsible for cleaning, maintenance, and repair of building
sewer
   
51.173   Permits to be issued only to persons in sewer construction business;
responsibility
   
51.174   Application for permit; costs and expenses; inspection
   
51.175   Sewer hookups for second generation homeowners
   
51.176   Septic tanks to be abandoned
Disposal of Holding Tank Wastes
   
51.190   Discharge into water course or storm sewer prohibited
   
51.191   Wastes originating within the city
   
51.192   Wastes originating outside city
   
51.193   Sewage disposal into city system prohibited
   
51.194   Discharges of other than domestic sewage
Powers, Authority, and Enforcement
   
51.210   Access to records and information
   
51.211   Right of entry
   
51.212   Service of notice of violations
   
51.213   Enforcement actions available to city
   
51.214   Violation constitutes nuisance
   
51.215   Cease and desist injunction
   
51.216   Liability for damages
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The public mandate for national clean waters resulted in the passage
by Congress of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (PL
92-500). The Act set into motion a vast federal endeavor to improve the sewer
systems and wastewater treatment plants of the nation's municipalities through
a construction grant program. The city, in order to do its part in achieving
the national clean water goals, has by necessity elected to participate in the
grant program.
   (B)   Among the goals of these rules and regulations are:
      (1)   Prevention of the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system
including interference with its use or disposal of municipal sludge.
      (2)   Prevention of the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system.
      (3)   Improved opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and sludges
from the system.
      (4)   Equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal wastewater
system.
   (C)   In order to implement the above requirements, these rules and
regulations provide the city with legal authority to control and monitor the
wastewaters discharged to the public wastewater treatment system under its
management.
   (D)   This control, along with other controls effected by these rules and
regulations herewith presented, is necessary not only to conform to federal and
state laws and regulations, but also to provide for the consistent, reliable,
and efficient functioning of the city's wastewater treatment system.
   (E)   All rules and regulations have been checked and approved by the city,
County of Gallatin, Commonwealth of Kentucky, for conformity with city orders
and/or city administrative and policy regulations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act
as amended 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
   ANALYTICAL TESTING. All methods of sample collection, preservation, and
analysis as prescribed in 40 CFR 136, “Test Procedures for the Analysis of
Pollutants.”
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in the NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the E.P.A. in a non-NPDES state
or NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   A.S.T.M. The American Society of Testing and Materials.
   AUXILIARY METER.
      (1)   A meter or meters used on a primary water supply other than a
municipal water supply, i.e., wells, private water company, etc., and/or
      (2)   A meter or meters used to supplement the meter or meters measuring
a municipal water supply and considered necessary in the determination of the
sewage service charge and/or surcharge.
   BENEFICIAL USES. Uses of the waters of the state that may be protected
against quality degradation, including but not limited to, domestic, municipal,
agricultural and industrial water supply, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, both tangible
or intangible as specified by federal or state law.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND — BOD. Oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five days at 20°C.,
expressed in milligrams per liter. The values shall be as determined by the
methods of Analytical Testing except that when the BOD value is to be used in
determining wastewater treatment system or industrial cost recovery charges,
and the BOD test does not produce an accurate measure of the oxygen demand
actually exerted by the waste when undergoing treatment, then for use in
determining said charges the BOD shall be calculated by whichever of the
following formula gives the more accurate measure of oxygen demand actually
exerted.
                  BOD = (F1) (COD) (Section 112)
                                  
                      or
                  BOD - (F2) (TVR)
Wherein F1 and F2 are constants to be determined for each wastewater treatment
plant and TVR is the Total Volatile Residue in milligrams per liter as
determined by the methods of analytical testing.
   BOARD. The City Council of the City of Warsaw, Kentucky.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of the drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer. The
building drain shall extend to three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN — SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sewage
only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN — STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water
or other drainage, but no sewage.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension form the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of
disposal.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER — SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sewage
only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER — STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water
or other drainage, but no sewage.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulation.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND — COD. The oxygen equivalent of that portion of the
organic matter than is susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical oxidant.
The values shall be as determined by the methods of analytical testing.
   CITY. The City of Warsaw, Kentucky, which shall act through its Council and
Mayor and their designees. It shall also include the Warsaw Waterworks.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is intended to serve as a storm sewer and a
sanitary sewer.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which creates a hazard to the public health, e.g., through
poisoning or through the spread of disease. Contamination shall include any
equivalent effect resulting from the disposal of wastewater, whether or not
waters of the state are affected.
   COOLING WATER. The cleaned wastewaters discharged from any system of heat
transfer such as condensation, air conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, PL 92-500 and any
amendments thereto; as well as any guidelines, limitations, and standards
promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
or dispensing of food, or from the handling, storage, or sale of produce (as
distinguished from SHREDDED GARBAGE).
   GRANT AMOUNT. The portion of cash payment or contribution made by the
Environmental Protection Agency or other state or federal governmental agency
for the purpose of financing allowable wastewater treatment project costs.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any sanitary waste from holding tanks or chambers such
as are used in connection with boats, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, or
other isolated facilities from which sanitary wastes emanate. This definition
includes sanitary wastes from septic tanks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL PLANT. Any facility which discharges industrial wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. For purposes of industrial cost recovery, shall mean any
non- governmental user of the wastewater treatment system identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the
following divisions:
      (1)   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing.
      (2)   Division B. Mining.
      (3)   Division D. Manufacturing.
      (4)   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services.
      (5)   Division I. Services.
A user in the Divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that it will
introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastes admissible to the wastewater treatment system
from industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business or from the
development, recovery or processing of natural resources, as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of the sanitation district's sewer
system, treatment process, or operations which contribute to a violation of any
requirement of the wastewater treatment system NPDES permit. The term includes
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the sanitation district in
accordance with Section 405 of the Act, or any criteria guidelines or
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the
Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substance Control act or more stringent state criteria
(including those contained in any State sludge management plant prepared
pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the sanitation district.
   KDNREP. The Kentucky Department for Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection.
   KJELDAHL NITROGEN. The sum of free-ammonia and organic nitrogen compounds
which are converted to ammonium sulfate (NH4)2SO4, under test conditions. The
values shall be as determined by the methods of analytical testing.
   MAINTENANCE. Keeping the wastewater treatment works in a state of repair and
shall include expenditures necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity (capability) for which said works were designed
and constructed.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. A nonresidential user that: has a flow of
50,000 gallons or more per average work day; or has a flow greater than 5% of
the flow carried by the sewer system; or has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in
toxic amounts; or discharges wastewater that is found by the Director, or the
NPDES permit issuance authority in connection with the issuance of a NPDES
permit to the public wastewater treatment system receiving the waste, to have
significant impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on the wastewater treatment system or upon the quality of effluent
therefrom.
   MASS EMISSION RATE. The weight of material discharged to the sewer system
during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the mass emission
rate shall mean kilograms per day of a particular constituent or combination of
constituents.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Warsaw, Kentucky.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or  PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
Section 307 (b) and (c) of the Act, which applies to industrial users.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. Sewage having daily average concentration values of
not more than the following in the pollutant categories indicated:
 
Biochemical oxygen demand    240 mg/l
Suspended solids             300 mg/l
Total phosphorus as P        20.0 mg/l
Total kjeldahl nitrogen as N 30.0 mg/l
 
   Biodegradable oils and greases in less than floating amounts.
   NPDES PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit.
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive
to the senses, or is an obstruction to the free use of property so as to
interfere with human comfort or enjoyment of life or property, whether
affecting individual interests per se or affecting at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood of any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance, interference or damage may not be inflicted equally
upon the persons therein.
   OPERATOR. The employee of the city charged with the operation and
supervision of the city's water and sewer systems.
   PERSON, ENTERPRISE, ESTABLISHMENT, or OWNER. Any individual, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, or group other than a public corporation.
   pH. The logarithm to the base 10 of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ion in grams per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS. Total phosphorus content in wastewater as determined by the
methods of analytical testing.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the water of the state by waste
to a degree which affects such waters for beneficial use or facilities which
serve such beneficial uses. Pollution may include contamination.
   PRIVATE SEWER. Any privy, privy vault, cesspool, septic tank, or other means
of sewage disposal or treatment not connected to any sewerage system.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any government entity having jurisdiction.
   PUBLIC CORPORATION. Any city, county, school district, water district, and
any other governmental agency or political subdivision clothed with the power
of levying taxes or issuing bonds payable from special funds.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is controlled, owned, operated, and maintained
by a public authority.
   REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR. The appropriate EPA Regional Administrator or his
representative.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which said
works were designed and constructed. Operation and maintenance includes
replacement.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. Rules, regulations, ordinances, laws, and statutes.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage containing water-carried wastes contributed from
premises by reason of human occupancy and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and industrial wastes
and to which storm, surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the liquid and water-carried waste discharged from
premises.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit for conveying wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge, based upon the amount of water supplied to
the user, that he must pay for the use of and the services rendered by the
sewage works and facilities of the city.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, and transporting
wastewater to the treatment facilities.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension (as
distinguished from GARBAGE.)
   SLUG LOADING. shall mean the discharge of any pollutant, including (BOD,
etc.) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the wastewater treatment system.
   SPECIAL METER. The term applied to an approved meter designed for
measurement of water and used specifically for the sole purpose of measuring
the amount of water which does not enter the sewerage system and for which a
user expects to receive a reduction in their sewerage service charge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION. The classification of users based on the
1972 Standard Industrial Classification Manual (SIC), Office of Manpower and
Budget of the United States of America.
   STANDARD METHODS. The publication: Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, latest edition, American Public Health Association,
American Water Works Association, Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm waters, surface
runoff, street wash waters and drainage, but which excludes sanitary sewage and
industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SURCHARGE. The charge which the user must pay in addition to the sewer
service charge if the sewage which he is discharging into the sewerage system
exceeds the specifications for normal strength sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering, expressed in milligrams per liter. The value shall be as
determined by the methods of analytical testing.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. Solids that remain after all liquid has been evaporated,
expressed in milligrams per liter. The values shall be as determined by the
methods of analytical testing.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which interferes
with the proper operation of a wastewater treatment plant or which is
designated as toxic by the general manager.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water to which no constituent has been added, either
intentionally or accidentally.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period of time during which a wastewater
treatment works will be required to perform a function which is necessary to
the wastewater treatment system's operation.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into a public sewer.
   USER CLASSIFICATION. The identification of a user as to the type of premises
from which wastewater is discharged. Such classification shall be assigned by
the district and shall include residential, industrial, public, and commercial
users.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any single or two-family housing unit.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user which discharges industrial wastes.
      (3)   PUBLIC USER. Any public or parochial school, college, university,
churches, public parks, public or governmental buildings, charitable
institutions, and other similar users of an eleemosynary nature.
      (4)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any and all users of the wastewater treatment
system not otherwise classified.
   WASTE. Sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid, solid,
gaseous, or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of human or
animal origin, or from any production, manufacturing, or processing operation
of whatever nature, including such wastes placed within containers of whatever
nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
premises.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume and
flow rate, and such other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure
the contents, quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Refer to “Sewage Treatment Plant.”
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. All of the connected treatment works necessary
to meet the requirements of Title III of the Federal Act and involved in: the
transport of wastewaters from premises to a plant or facility wherein treatment
of the wastewater is accomplished; the treatment of the wastewaters to remove
pollutants; and the ultimate disposal, including recycling or reuse of the
treated wastewaters and residues resulting from the treatment process.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM (WTS) SERVICE CHARGE. Refer to SEWER SERVICE
CHARGE.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM (WTS) SURCHARGE. Refer to SURCHARGE.
   WATERWAY or WATERCOURSE. A channel in which waters of the state flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   W.P.C.F. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.003 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of- way in which there is located a
public sanitary or combined sewer, is hereby required, at his expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of
these rules and regulations, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 INDIVIDUAL PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
Editor's Note:
   Enforcement of this section is the responsibility of the Board of Health and
its appearance here is for informational purposes only.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available to a premise, the
building sewer shall be connected to an individual private sewage disposal
system complying with the requirements of the appropriate public authority.
   (B)   The owner shall, at his own expense, operate and maintain the
individual private sewage disposal facility to the satisfaction of the
appropriate public authority.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any individual private residential sewage
disposal facility to be connected to any public sanitary, storm, or combined
sewer.
   (D)   At such time as a public sanitary or combined sewer becomes available
for use by property served by an individual private sewage disposal system, a
direct connection shall be made to the public wastewater treatment system by
and at the expense of the owner. Any septic tanks, cesspools, or similar
individual private sewage disposal facility shall be abandoned to the
satisfaction of the appropriate public authority.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.005 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Present and prospective users of the sewerage works of the city are
herewith advised and warned of other existing regulations, codes, ordinances,
and laws governing the requirements for use and control of sewerage systems and
the requirements of their compliance.
   (B)   Users and plumbers employed by the user are required to comply with
the State Plumbing Law and Code, Rules and Regulations issued by the Division
of Plumbing, Department for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection.
   (C)   Every person and public corporation desiring to install or enter into
a contract for the installation of a public, semi-public, or industrial
sewerage system, or to make additions or alterations in any such treatment or
pretreatment plant or to alter or extend any such sewer shall comply with all
design and construction standards and specifications of the city, all rules and
regulations of the County Board of Health in which the facility exists or is to
be constructed and comply with all codes, rules, and regulations of the
Kentucky Department for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection. No such
installations, additions or alterations shall be begun until the plans and
specifications therefor have been submitted to and approved by the city and/or
its authorized representatives.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
§ 51.015 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly
or indirectly, to the sanitary sewer system, surface water, groundwater, roof
runoff, subsoil drains, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters.
      (1)   Any such connections made either before or after the effective date
of these rules and regulations shall be considered illegal and shall be subject
to immediate removal by the owner of the premises so connected and at such
owner's expense.
      (2)   Should the owner of such illegally connected premise fail to remove
the illegal connection within 90 days of being notified by the Operator to do
so, the Operator may cause the connection to be removed and the cost thereof to
be billed to the owner of the premises.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
such sewers as are specifically designed and designated as storm sewers or to a
combined sewer or a natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge unpolluted water, including but not limited
to, cooling water, process water, or blow-down from cooling towers or
evaporative coolers through direct or indirect connections to a sanitary sewer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 DISCHARGES TO NATURAL OUTLETS OR STORM SEWERS.
Editor's Note:
   Enforcement of this section the responsibility of the several Boards of
Health. Its appearance here is for informational purposes only.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural outlet or
storm sewer any sanitary sewage or other polluted waters. Effluent from
privately owned individual household disposal devices, shall not be discharged
to storm sewers.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.017 STORM OR SUBSURFACE WATER NOT TO BE PERMITTED TO ENTER SANITARY SEWER.
   No person constructing a sanitary sewer or sanitary building sewer, shall
leave same open, unsealed or incomplete in such fashion as to permit storm or
subsurface water to enter such sewers.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 DISCHARGES TO MANHOLES.
   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole or other
opening in the wastewater treatment system other than through an approved
building sewer, unless upon written application to the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 DISCHARGES OF WASTES PRODUCING CERTAIN RESULTS.
   No person shall discharge to the wastewater treatment system flows or wastes
which cause, threaten to cause, or are capable of causing either alone or by
interaction with any of, but not limited to, the substances listed below, any
condition listed in this section. Prohibited materials include, but are not
limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides and sulfides and any other substances which the city, the
state, or EPA has notified its user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
   (A)   Liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity
are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances
to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the city's
wastewater treatment plants or the operation of the city's wastewater treatment
plants. At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter,
at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the system) be
more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL)
of the meter for the particular gas to be measured.
   (B)   Obstruction of flow in or damage or injury to the wastewater treatment
system.
   (C)   Danger to life or safety of personnel.
   (D)   A nuisance or prevention of the effective maintenance or operation of
the wastewater treatment system, through having a strong, unpleasant odor.
   (E)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or
malodorous gas-producing substances.
   (F)   Interference with the wastewater treatment processes.
   (G)   The wastewater treatment system's effluent or any other product of the
treatment process such as residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process.
   (H)   A detrimental environmental impact or a nuisance in the water of the
state or a condition unacceptable to any public authority.
   (I)   Any condition, e.g., discoloration, in the wastewater treatments
system's effluents such that receiving water quality requirements established
by law cannot be met.
   (J)   Conditions at or near any wastewater treatment works which violate any
statute, permit, rule, regulation, or ordinance of any public authority.
   (K)   Quantities or rates of flow which overload any wastewater treatment
works or cause excessive district operation and/or maintenance costs, or use a
disproportionate share of a wastewater treatment works.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to the wastewater
treatment system any of the following described substances, materials, waters
or wastes (as determined at point of discharge):
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F. (65° C.)
or containing heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
sewage treatment plant.
   (B)   Any water or wastes containing floating oils, fat, or grease or
containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable
cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (C)   Any water or wastes containing dissolved gases (such as H2S, sulfur
oxides, nitrogen oxides and ammonia) in concentrations sufficient to cause
poisonous or toxic fumes or wastewater, or a malodorous of harmful condition.
   (D)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, asphaltic materials, cement or concrete, paunch
manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, lime slurry, lime residues, beer or
distillery spent grains, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery waste bulk
solids, or any other solid or viscous substances, in amounts capable of causing
obstruction to flow in, or interference with the proper operation of a
wastewater treatment works.
   (E)   Any water or wastes that contain phenols in excess of 0.50 mg/l. These
limits may be modified if the aggregate of contributions throughout the
metropolitan area of service create treatment difficulties, or produce
wastewater treatment plant effluent discharges to receiving waters which may be
prohibitive.
   (F)   Any water or wastes, acid or alkaline in reaction and having corrosive
properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, or
personnel of the district. The acidic or alkaline character of such wastes must
be neutralized at all times to within the permissible range of pH, which range
is between 6.0 and 9.0. Violation of this requirement is subject to penalty of
$100 for each 1.0 pH unit over or under the permissible pH range of 6.0 to 9.0
and each violation shall be considered a separate offense; provided, however,
that to constitute a violation, the illegal flow shall be continuous for the
following time periods:
      30 minutes for pH 5.9 to 5.0 or 9.1 to 11.0
      15 minutes for pH 4.9 to 4.0 or 11.1 to 12.0
       5 minutes for pH 3.9 to 2.5 or 12.1 to 13.0
       1 minute for pH less than 2.5 or greater than 13.0
      (1)   The City Council may assess the penalties for such violations and
add such penalties to the users charges and fees.
      (2)   Such penalty shall not be construed as liquidated damages and shall
accrue in addition to any liability for any consequential damages resulting
from the violation for which the penalty is imposed.
   (G)   Any water or wastes containing objectionable or toxic substances to
such degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at a
wastewater treatment plant exceeds the limits established by the Operator to
comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001. The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if deemed
necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 DISCHARGE OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge material licensed by the Federal Nuclear
Regulatory Commission or other radioactive material into the wastewater
treatment works. Excreta from individuals undergoing medical diagnosis or
therapy with radioactive material shall be exempt.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 WASTES FROM GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastes from garbage grinders into the
wastewater treatment system except:
      (1)   Wastes generated in preparation of food normally consumed on the
premises, or
      (2)   Where the user has obtained a permit for that specific use from the
city.
   (B)   All garbage grinders shall shred the waste to a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the
public sewer. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper
products, inert materials or garden refuse.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interception devices or traps shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the Operator, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing oil or grease in excessive amounts, sand or other
harmful ingredients, except that such interception devices or traps will not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interception
devices or traps shall be of the type and capacity approved by the Operator and
shall be so located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of
substantial construction, gas-tight, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers. There installed, all grease, oil and sand interception
devices or traps shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing metals or substances
in concentrations greater than those listed in Table 1, wherein concentrations
are those of composite samples collected over the daily period of operation in
proportion to flow so as to produce a representative sample. However, if Q, the
daily discharge of a user in gallon per day, is less than 25,000, then the
allowable concentration shall be calculated by multiplying the tabulated value
by 25,000/Q, but in no event shall an allowable concentration of metals exceed
five times the respective tabulated value.
TABLE I
EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS
SUBSTANCE    CONCENTRATION mg/l SUBSTANCE  CONCENTRATION mg/l
Arsenic         4                  Lead         2
Barium          100                Mercury      .05
Cadmium         3                  Nickel       5
Chromium, Total 6                  Selenium     3
CN,A            2                  Silver       1
CN, Total       10                 Zinc         6
Copper          5
 
   (B)   These effluent limitations have been established to assure compliance
with the objectives presented in §
51.001. The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if deemed
necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001.
   (C)   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment
standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if
more stringent than limitations imposed in these rules and regulations for
sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations
imposed under these Rules and Regulations. The city shall notify all affected
users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R., Section 403.12.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025 CITY APPROVAL OF FACILITIES NOT TO ACT AS GUARANTEE.
   Approval of existing or proposed pretreatment or control facilities or
equipment by the city does not, in any way, guarantee that these facilities or
equipment will function in the manner described by their constructor or
manufacturer; nor shall it relieve any person of the responsibility of
enlarging or otherwise modifying such facilities to accomplish the intended
purpose of pretreatment or control.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.026 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES; REPORT OF POLLUTANTS.
   Where pretreatment or control facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the city. The owner
shall maintain operating records as required by the city and shall submit to
the city, as required by the city, reports of the character of the influent and
effluent to show the performance of the pretreatment or control facilities.
   (A)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date
of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the treatment works, shall submit to the
Operator during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Operator, a report indicating
the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of
all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily
flow reported in §
51.020. At the discretion of the Operator and in consideration of such factors
as local high and low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the like, the
Operator may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be
submitted. These reports shall be signed by an authorized representative (as
defined by 40 C.F.R. 403.12 (k)) and the accuracy certified by a qualified
professional.
   (B)   The Operator may impose mass limitations on users which are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other
cases where the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. In such case,
the report required by division (A) above shall indicate the mass of pollutants
regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user. These reports
shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the discharge, including
the flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass where
requested by the Operator, of pollutants contained therein which are limited by
the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be
prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures established by the EPA Regional
Administrator pursuant to Section 304 (g) of the Act and contained in 40
C.F.R., Part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures
approved by the EPA Regional Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques approved by the EPA Regional Administrator.
   (C)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant- specific
limitation developed by the city or the state. (Comment: Dilution may be an
acceptable means of complying with some of the prohibitions set forth in §
51.020 (F); pH regulations).
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 PLANS FOR PRETREATMENT FACILITIES TO BE SUBMITTED.
   (A)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities, required by the city, shall be submitted
for the approval of the city. Failure to make a timely submittal shall be
grounds for revocation or refusal to issue or renew a wastewater discharge
permit.
   (B)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the treatment works, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the city a report
indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from
the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment standards and
requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these process units in
the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment standards or
requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what
additional O & M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into
compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This
statement shall be signed by an authorized representative (as defined in 40
C.F.R. 403.12(k)) of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 MODIFICATIONS.
   Where the city wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of
pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the city may apply to the
approval authority for modification of specific limits in the federal
pretreatment standards. “Consistent Removal” shall mean reduction in the amount
of pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutants by the wastewater
treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is
achieved by the system in 95% of the samples taken when measured according to
the procedures set forth in Section 403.7(c) (2) of (Title 40 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Part 403) — “General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing
and New Sources of Pollution” promulgated pursuant to the Act. The city may
then modify pollutant discharge limits in the federal pretreatment standards if
the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R., Part 403, Section 403.7 are fulfilled
and prior approval from the approval authority is obtained.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.029 MORE STRINGENT REGULATIONS TO APPLY.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in these rules and regulations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.030 PERMITTED ACTIONS BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the wastewater treatment system, which waters contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in §§
51.015(C),
51.018 through
51.022, or
51.024, and which, in the judgement of the Operator, may have a deleterious
effect on the aforesaid system or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes.
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the wastewater treatment system.
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or,
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of the wastes not covered by the wastewater treatment system service
charge.
   (B)   When the city finds that a discharge of wastewater in violation of
these rules and regulations, or the provisions of wastewater discharge permit
issued under the provisions of §
51.085 through
51.098, has taken place or threatens to take place, the Mayor may issue an
order to cease and desist and direct that those persons not complying therewith
shall:
      (1)   Comply forthwith.
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a time schedule set forth by the Mayor,
or Operator.
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
threatened violation.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.031 FACILITIES FOR PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   Each user shall provide facilities for protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other regulated wastes. Such facilities shall be
provided and maintained at user's expense. Detailed plans delineating such
facilities and detailed operating procedures to provide this protection shall
be maintained by the user and available for inspection by the city at any
reasonable time, upon request of the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032 USERS TO NOTIFY CITY OF DISCHARGES IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   Users shall notify the city immediately of any discharges or highway
spills of wastes in violation of these rules and regulations to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the city to minimize damage to the wastewater
treatment system and/or the receiving waters.
   (B)   This notification shall be followed, within 15 days of the date of
occurrence, by a detailed written statement from the user describing the causes
of the discharge and the measures being taken to prevent its future occurrence.
   (C)   Such notification will not relieve users of liability for any
consequential expense, loss, or damage to the wastewater treatment system or
for any fines and/or penalties imposed on the city which result from the
violative discharge.
   (D)   Users shall make available to their employees copies of these rules
and regulations and together with such other wastewater information and notices
which may be furnished by the Operator from time to time directed toward more
effective water pollution control. A notice shall be furnished and permanently
posted by the user in a conspicuous place advising employees who to call in
case of any discharge in violation of these rules and regulations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 USER TO SUBMIT TIME SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS AFTER VIOLATION.
   When the city finds that a discharge of wastewater, in violation of these
rules and regulations, or wastewater source control requirements, effluent
limitations, or pretreatment standards or the provisions of a wastewater
discharge permit, has been taking place, the city may require the user to
submit for approval, with such modifications as the city deems necessary, a
detailed time schedule of specific actions which the user shall take in order
to either prevent the discharge or correct the violation of requirements
resulting therefrom.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.034 VIOLATION CONSTITUTES PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Discharges of wastewater in violation of these rules and regulations in any
manner or in violation of any order issued by the city or Mayor as authorized
by these rules and regulations, is hereby declared a public nuisance. Such
nuisance shall be corrected or abated as ordered by the city or Mayor.
Intentionally creating such a public nuisance shall be a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.035 CHARGE FOR DAMAGING WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
   When a discharge of wastes by any user causes an obstruction of, or damage
or any other impairment to, a wastewater treatment works, a charge shall be
levied by the by the city against said user for the cost of the work required
to clear and/or repair the wastewater treatment works affected by said
discharge. The city shall add such charge to the user's usual sewer service
charges, surcharges, and fees.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.036 REVOCATION OF PERMIT OR TERMINATION OF SERVICE FOR VIOLATION.
   The city may revoke any wastewater discharge permit, or terminate or cause
to be terminated wastewater treatment system service to any premise, if a
violation of any provision of these rules and regulations is found to exist or
if a discharge of wastewater causes or threatens to cause a condition of
contamination, pollution, or nuisance as defined in these rules and
regulations. This provision is in addition to other statutes, rules or
regulations, authorizing termination of service for delinquency in payment.
Revocation of a permit shall be accomplished by the procedures of §
51.092(B). Revocation of a permit is sufficient grounds for termination of
service.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.037 PERMIT REQUIRED PRIOR TO FILLING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Any person owning or having possession, charge, or management of any
lot or parcel of real estate in which there exist public or private wastewater
treatment works and on which a fill or partial fill is to be made, shall,
before making such fill, apply to the city for a permit authorizing the same to
be made. His application shall state the location of the tract and the nature
and dimensions of the fill proposed. If the city is satisfied that the proposed
fill will not obstruct, damage, or interfere with any lawfully existing public
or private wastewater treatment works, under his management, he shall issue
permission authorizing the fill.
   (B)   In the event it becomes necessary to adjust, relocate, or otherwise
modify any existing public or private wastewater treatment works as a result of
placing the fill, the applicant authorized to make the fill shall, at his
expense, make such adjustments, relocations or modifications, as required by
the city, before or during the filling operation.
   (C)   The applicant shall post a bond, in an amount to be determined by the
city, covering the replacement cost of the existing or modified wastewater
treatment works and guaranteeing that the aforementioned fill will not damage
the wastewater treatment works either as existing or modified. The bond shall
be in force for a period of one year after the fill is completed.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.038 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage,
destroy, deface, cover, or tamper with any wastewater treatment works which is
a part of the wastewater treatment system under the Operator's management. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under a
charge of criminal mischief.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.030
§ 51.039 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in these rules and regulations shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.050 BASIS FOR CHARGES.
   The sewerage service charge for “normal” strength sewage is based on the
water discharged to the sewer system as measured by the public water supply
meter or meters, and/or by any supplementary meter, meters or other means as
hereinafter provided. The basic sewerage service charge shall be determined
upon the metered flow and at rates as provided by ordinance of the City Council
set forth in §
51.051.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.051 WATER AND SEWER RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The schedule of monthly water rates to be paid by users for services
rendered by the municipal water works and distribution system of the city is
hereby officially ordained and approved as follows, plus any applicable tax
thereon:
BRACKET RATES
BRACKET                                  RATES
Water Rates: Within the city limits:      
First 2,000 gallons or less              $10.00 minimum
Over 2,000 gallons                       $5.50 per 1,000 gallons
Master meter rate
(Master meter users are two or more
residents or businesses operating on one Minimum rate of $6.00 for every 1,000
meter. See §                            gallons used
 
110.01 for definitions).
Fire sprinkler systems                   $15.00 flat
Water rates: Outside the city limits:     
First 1,000 gallons                      $13.00 minimum bill
Next 2,000 gallons                       6.00 per 1,000 gallon
Next 2,000 gallons                       6.00 per 1,000 gallon
Next 5,000 gallons                       4.50 per 1,000 gallon
All over 10,000 gallons                  4.00 per 1,000 gallon
 
   (B)   (1)   Sewer Rates: Within the city limits:
 
First 2,000 gallons    $15.50 minimum
Next 3,000 gallons     7.50 per 1,000 gallons
All over 5,000 gallons 7.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (2)   Sewer Rates: Outside the city limits:
 
First 1,000 gallons    $16.50 minimum
Next 4,000 gallons     8.50 per 1,000 gallons
All over 5,000 gallons 8.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   (1)   All persons connecting to the city water system shall henceforth
pay a tap fee of $1,000, plus 100% of the city’s cost of any road push for a ¾-
inch meter and a meter deposit of $150 shall be paid prior to the providing of
water service. All persons connecting to the city sewer system shall henceforth
pay a tap fee of $1,000, plus 100% of the city’s cost of any road push.
      (2)   A property owner may request the termination of water service to a
property and thereby avoid the monthly fee, minimum or otherwise. When and if
that property is reconnected to the water system a new reconnection fee will be
required as stated therein.
   (D)   All connections to the water system requiring one inch or larger meter
shall be charged the cost of installation of such meter plus any parts needed
for larger meter.
   (E)   Upon adequate notice from the water and sewer customer, a water and
sewer bill may be adjusted to reflect the use of large quantities of water for
swimming pools only and said adjustment may reflect nonuse of the sewer system
for that volume of water.
   (F)   Water sold to the Gallatin County Water District, in bulk, shall be
sold at a rate of $1.25 per thousand gallons.
   (G)   All persons or entities connecting any type of building to the sewer
system by connecting into any pipe, manhole, line or facilities comprising the
“Smuggler’s Cove Sewer Extension and Facilities,” or any pipe, manhole, line or
facilities flowing therein, shall pay a capital recovery fee of $1,000 at the
time connection is made and service provided.
(Ord. 613.01, passed 9-12-88; Am. Ord. 1991-613.01 and 613.02, passed 6-10-91;
Am. Ord. 1991-613. , passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 1991-613.   , passed 7-8-91; Am.
Ord. 1991-613.02, passed 12-23-91; Am. Ord. 1997-006, passed 2-10-97; Am. Ord.
1997-21, passed 12-8-97; Am. Ord. 1998-004, passed 7-3-98; Am. Ord. 1998-007,
passed 10-12-98; Am. Ord. 1999.002, passed 1-19-99; Am. Ord. 2000- 001, passed
1-10-00; Am. Ord. 2002-0008, passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 2006-10, passed 11-11-06;
Am. Ord. 2007-03, passed 6-11-07; Am Ord. 2011-05, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord.
2011-09, passed 1-9-12; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 3-10-14; Am. Ord. 2021-05,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 51.052 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   The sewerage service charge and surcharge, if any, are billed and
collected by the city.
   (B)   Payment of the sewerage service charge and surcharge must be made to
the city or one of its assigned collection agents.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.053 AVAILABILITY PRESUMES USE.
   When a sewer is available, it will be presumed that the sewage from the
premises is discharged either directly or indirectly into the sewer and the
property shall be billed for sewerage service. This shall apply to all premises
in the city's incorporated area and its service area.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.054 NEW SANITARY SEWERS.
   Where new sanitary sewers are constructed, all premises shall be connected
to the new sewer, in accordance with regulations herein set out, shall be
subject to the sewerage service charge as soon as connections are made to the
new sewer. However, if the making of the connection is delayed, the property
shall be subject to the sewerage service charge 30 days after the sewer is in
operation and/or accepted by the governmental agency having jurisdiction over
the sewer. This shall apply to all premises in the city's incorporated area and
its service area.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.055 CLAIMS FOR EXEMPTION FROM CHARGES.
   Claims for exemption from the sewerage service charge because of
nonavailability of sewers may be made in writing to the city, giving Water
Department account and meter numbers. Exemptions from the charge will be
effective only from and after such application had been investigated and
approved by the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.056 SOURCES OF WATER FROM OTHER THAN CITY SUPPLIES.
   Wells, or sources of water supply other than municipal water supplies, shall
be registered in writing to the city, giving name of the individuals or firms,
address, source and amount of water supply other than that from the public
water supplies, together with a sketch to a scale showing plan of property,
water distribution system, sewer layout, existing meters, and meters. All
sources of water that enter the sewer system shall be properly metered and
subject to the sewerage service charge.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
2004 S-4 Repl.
§ 51.057 REQUESTS FOR REDUCTION IN SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Excessive use.
      (1)   Requests for reduction in the sewerage service charge (as
determined and described hereinbefore and after) will be allowed for water not
entering the sewerage system if measured with a special meter and approved in
accordance with the procedures described hereinafter. All meters shall be
installed in accordance with the standards, rules, and regulations of the
applicable public water works.
      (2)   Upon written request for a reduction in sewerage service charge,
the city may reduce the sewerage service charge one time, if the city is
provided with substantial evidence that the water did not enter the city
sewerage system, and that the situation or condition that caused the excessive
use has been satisfactorily corrected and/or a special meter has been or will
be installed on the property.
      
   (B)   Leakage. No reduction in the sewerage service charge shall be made for
leakage on any lot, land or premise, except in cases where the city is provided
with substantial evidence that the water did not enter the city sewerage
system, and that the situation or condition that caused the leakage has been
satisfactorily corrected, at which time an adjustment may be made by the city.
      
   (C)   Adjustments. Any reduction in the sewerage service charge, other than
refunds for special meters, given by the city may result in a sewage service
charge equal to the average sewer service charge of the three previous months
of service to that property or 50% of the water service charge for the period
of time of the excessive use or leakage, whichever is greater.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87; Am. Ord. 2007-09, passed 12-10-07)
§ 51.058 DISCONNECTION, OTHER ACTIONS, FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   In case of failure of any user to pay for services rendered, the city
may compel payment and may enjoin further use until the payment is made, or it
may institute an action in any court having jurisdiction for the recovery of
charges for services rendered, or the city may, by a notice in writing, signed
by the Mayor, notify the municipality or the person, firm, or corporation which
furnishes water to the user's premises, to shut off the water service to said
user's premises, until such time as all delinquent charges, plus a reasonable
charge for turning off and on the water service, against said user, are paid in
full. However, such disconnection shall not be made until the requirements of §
51.059 are made.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice in writing, the municipality, or the
person, firm or corporation which furnishes water to the user's premises, shall
immediately shut off and discontinue the water service to the said user's
premises.
   (C)   Upon full payment of such account, plus a $20 charge for turning off
and an additional $20 charge for turning on the water service, the Mayor or his
designee shall notify the municipality, person, firm or corporation, which
furnishes water to said user, that the account is paid in full, including such
reasonable charge for turning off and on the water service, and that the said
water service can again be provided to said user's premises.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87; Am. Ord. 2007-10, passed 12-10-07)
§ 51.059 BILLING PROCEDURE; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Bills shall be rendered according to the name and address on the
respective water meter reading records or the flat water customer record, and
all such bills shall be due when mailed by the city. A penalty of 10% of the
amount of all bills shall be added to those not paid by the tenth day of the
month next succeeding the month billed for and any bills not paid within ten
days after mailing shall, with the penalty aforesaid, be delinquent.
   (B)   When any bill has remained unpaid for ten days, the same shall be
considered delinquent, and the user so notified by mail. The notice shall
inform the customer of the following:
      (1)   That if the delinquent bill is not paid within ten days of the
mailing of the notice, service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (2)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (D)   When any bill has remained unpaid for ten days following mailing of
the notice described in division (B) above, the Mayor will, by a notice in
writing, notify the municipality or the person, firm, commission, or
corporation which furnishes water to the users premises, to shut off the water
service to such users premises until such time as all delinquent charges, plus
a reasonable charge for the turning off and on of water service against such
user, are paid in full. Upon receipt of such notice in writing, the
municipality, person, firm, or corporation which furnishes water to the said
users premises shall immediately shut off and discontinue the water service to
the user's premises.
   (E)   Upon full payment of such delinquent account plus a reasonable charge
for turning off and on the water service, the Mayor shall notify the
municipality, firm or corporation which furnishes water to such user that the
account is paid in full, including such reasonable charge for turning off and
on the water service that the said water service can again be provided to said
users premises. The fee or charge collected for turning off and on water
service shall be paid to municipality, person, firm or corporation turning off
the water service. The city may institute actions in a court having
jurisdiction for the recovery of such delinquent bills.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87; Am. Ord. 2000-001, passed 1-10-00)
§ 51.060 PAYMENT BY CHECK; SERVICE FEE FOR RETURNED CHECKS.
   (A)   Payment of the sewerage service charge can be made by check. Customers
who pay by check assume all responsibility for insuring there are sufficient
funds to cover the check issued for payment of sewerage service charges.
   (B)   A service fee of $35 will be applied to the customer's account for
each check returned from the customers bank (for any reason). This fee will be
added to the outstanding sewerage service charge balance for which payment was
originally intended. The service fee is necessary to cover extra incurred
expenses by the city for processing the returned check.
   (C)   A notice will be sent to the customer after the returned check is
received by the city. This notice will inform the customer of the $35 service
fee and also inform the customer that if all outstanding sewerage service
charges (including the returned check fee) are not paid within five working
days from the postmarked date of the notice, all water service will be secured
to the account in accordance with §§
51.058 and
51.059.
   (D)   A $35 service fee for returned checks shall be payable to the city in
addition to all other charges and penalties as described in the city's rules
and regulations. This does not include any bank fees or charges due for said
returned checks.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87; Am. Ord. 1999-004, passed 3-8-99)
§ 51.061 SPECIAL METERS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All requests for installation of special meters and reductions in
sewerage service charges must be in writing to the city using the special meter
installation form.
      (2)   No meter shall be installed before approval of the installation is
granted by the city.
      (3)   No refunds, credits, reductions or allowances will be given
covering any period prior to the date the city approves the request for
installation of a special meter.
      (4)   All special meters MUST be approved by the city to receive credit.
   (B)   Special meter requirements.
      (1)   an approved, permanently installed special meter (no hose
connections or portable meters) designed for measurement of water flows must be
used to measure all water which does not enter the sewerage system.
      (2)   All special meters installed must register in the same units
(gallons or cubic feet) as the public water supply meter which serves the user.
      (3)   Special meters shall be installed at the expense of the owner.
      (4)   All meters must be installed in accordance with standards, rules
and regulations of the applicable public water supplier.
   (C)   Meter approval.
      (1)   It shall be the total responsibility of the user to verify to the
satisfaction of the city, that the water does not enter the sewerage system.
      (2)   Only water measured with the approved special meter shall qualify
for a reduction in sewerage service charges.
   (D)   Right to inspect meters. The city reserves the right to enter a user's
premises to inspect the installation of all special meters and to verify all
readings. If completed forms do not correspond with actual readings, then all
reductions will be based on actual meter readings.
   (E)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The special meter shall be purchased and installed at the total
expense of the user.
      (2)   The city assumes no responsibility for installation, maintenance or
mechanical condition of the meter.
      (3)   The user is responsible for insuring that the special meter is
properly maintained and serviced.
      (4)   No reductions will be approved if the meter fails to operate
properly.
      (5)   No estimated reading will be acceptable as a basis for reduction in
sewerage service charges.
      (6)   If a meter is suspected of faulty registration, the operator may
order a test and/or replacement of meter.
   (F)   Meter reading.
      (1)   The user is responsible for reporting all readings to the city.
      (2)   The city assumes no responsibility for the readings until received
at the main office.
      (3)   All readings must be recorded on the official form provided (at no
cost) by the city and submitted to the city's main office. No readings will be
accepted over the phone or verbally.
      (4)   All special meter forms must be COMPLETELY filled out according to
instructions. The form will be used to determine the amount of reduction to be
applied to the user's sewerage service charge.
      (5)   Forms will be automatically forwarded to the user on a yearly
basis.
      (6)   All reductions will be computed based on the city's current
approved rate schedules in effect at the time the water was used and not
returned to the sewerage system.
      (7)   All special meter forms must be received by the city before the
sewerage service charge is computed and/or processed for each billing period.
No reductions will be allowed to a user's sewerage service charge once the
billing has been computed and/or processed. The reduction will be carried
forward to the next billing period.
   (G)   Refund limitation.
      (1)   Requested reductions or credits to a users sewerage service charge
will not be greater than a minimum bill per current approved rates, for the
applicable billing period. Residual credit will be carried to the next billing
period. No cash refunds will be allowed except when a user's account is listed
as a final billing.
      (2)   The amount of reduction associated with a special meter credit
cannot amount to more than the total sewerage service charges associated with
usage from the user's water supply meter(s) for the same period of time.
      (3)   All special meter readings and submittal of forms are to be kept on
a current basis. No reduction in a user's sewerage service charge will be
allowed for accounts that have been inactive for a period of 12 months or more
since the last form submittal.
      (4)   To be eligible for the reduction or credits the user must be
current in payment for city water and sewer services.
(Ord. 2007-09, passed 12-10-07)
§ 51.062 ADDITIONAL METERS.
   The Operator has the authority to permit or to require an additional meter
or meters to be installed at the applicant's expense, so as to measure the
quantity of water actually entering the wastewater treatment system.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.063 RESERVED
§ 51.064 AUXILIARY METERS.
   (A)   Auxiliary meters for determining the sewerage service charge or
surcharge shall be installed, owned and maintained by the property owner.
However, following the installation of such meters and approval of the
installation by the city, meters may not be removed without the prior approval
in writing of the city.
   (B)   Meters which will be approved are as follows:
      (1)   Meters purchased from any municipality, or the person, firm or
corporation which furnished water to said user's premises; and meters similar
to and equal to those specified by said water supplier and tested by the water
supplier.
      (2)   Crest or turbine type meters of two-inch size and over, to be used
where it is established the particular meter is under a full head at all times;
provided such meters are tested and passed for large constant flows by an
independent testing laboratory or a water department and certified by same.
      (3)   Meters used currently for tax purposes by the United States
Government will be accepted without tests.
      (4)   Existing, private meters now in place, may be continued in use on
conditional basis. If such meters are suspected of faulty registration, they
are subject to a test, when so ordered by the Operator.
   (C)   No meter shall be installed before approval of the installation is
granted by the Operator.
   (D)   All meters shall be installed in accordance with the standards, rules,
and regulations of the applicable public water works. When an auxiliary meter
is so located that it is not read by the water meter reader, it shall be the
responsibility of the user to make reports of meter readings before each
billing period.
   (E)   Where private meters are used on wells, or in an industrial,
commercial, or private water distribution system and such meters are set behind
the meters used to register the primary water supply to a lot, land or
premises, the installation is subject to the inspection and approval of the
Operator.
   (F)   If the required meter reading reports for auxiliary meters are not
received at the city before each billing period, the city shall compute the
user's sewerage service charge by using the consumption total indicated on the
municipal supply meter readings.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.065 NO REDUCTION IN WATER CHARGE; EXCEPTION.
   No reduction in the water charge shall be made for any water services
provided by the city to any property connected to the city water system; except
the city may provide a one-time reduction in the water charge to a property
owner not connected to the city sewer system when it can be shown that the
water use was abnormally excessive due to no fault of the property owner, and
when it is shown that the problem that caused the excessive water use has been
corrected. In order for the city to consider the reduction in the water charge
due to an abnormal excessive use, the property owner must present substantial
evidence to the city showing the reason for the excessive use and that the
reason has been eliminated. The city can reduce the water charge one time for
the owner(s) of the property and for only one month of water charges. When the
foregoing standards have been met, the city shall use the following formula to
determine the reduce water charge in situations arising herein:
   (A)   Current water charge - Average of the last 12 months water charge
=   Average of the last
               2                     12 months water charges
   (B)   In words, the formula will read: The adjusted water bill shall equal:
(the current water charge) minus (the average of the last 12 months water
charges), divided by two; plus (the average of the last 12 months water
charges).
   (C)   Example: if the current water charge is $200 and the average bill for
the last 12 months is $40, the adjusted bill to be paid would be $120.
      (1)   The calculation would be: 200-40 + 40 = 120;
                   2
      (2)   $200 minus $40 equals $160; divided by 2 equals $80; plus $40
equals $120.
(Ord. 2003-0001, passed 3-10-03)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT
§ 51.085 MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRIES TO OBTAIN WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   All major contributing industries proposing to directly or indirectly
connect to or discharge into the wastewater treatment system shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into the same.
All existing major contributing industries directly or indirectly connected to
or discharging into the wastewater treatment system must apply for a wastewater
discharge permit within 90 days after the effective date of these rules and
regulations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users seeking a wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file
with the city an application in the form prescribed by the Operator and
accompanied by the applicable fees. Except as otherwise agreed in writing by
the Mayor the applicant shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and SIC number of applicant.
      (2)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged.
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including biochemical
oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, phosphorus, and others as required by the
Operator.
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge.
      (5)   Average and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates including daily,
monthly, and seasonal variations, if any.
      (6)   Ground plan or plat sufficient to indicate locations of building
sewers, building drains, process waste sewers, monitoring facilities, and
pretreatment facilities with respect to buildings, property lines, streets,
sewers, and industrial process facilities.
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials and types of materials which are or could be
discharged.
      (8)   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production when
required to determine compliance with pretreatment standards.
      (9)   Number and type of employees and hours of work.
      (10)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Mayor and/or
Operator to be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   The city will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation of the data furnished, the city may
issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided
herein.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.087 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of
these rules and regulations. Permits shall contain any or all of the following:
   (A)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and characteristics.
   (B)   Limits on rate and time of discharge and requirements for flow
regulations and equalization.
   (C)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling facilities.
   (D)   Pretreatment requirements.
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and methods of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests and reporting schedule.
   (F)   Requirements for submission of technical reports, notices of change,
or discharge reports.
      (1)   Letter of notification. Within 30 days after promulgation of a new
pretreatment standard, the city will send a letter to applicable industrial
users informing them that a pretreatment standard has been promulgated and a
copy of the standard is available from the city. The letter will state a brief
summary of the standard and which standard industrial classification (SIC)
numbers the standards apply to. As the city distributes requested copies of new
pretreatment standards to industrial users, a statement acknowledging receipt
of the standards by the industrial user will also be sent. This will be signed
by an authorized representative of the industrial user and then returned to the
city.
      (2)   Submission of baseline reports. The city will notify the affected
industrial user of reporting requirements pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.12 (b).
      (3)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The city will notify the
affected industrial user of reporting requirements pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.12
(c) (3).
      (4)   Notice of slug loadings. The industrial user shall notify the city
immediately of any slug loading as defined by §
51.002 161 of these rules and regulations.
   (G)   Requirements for maintaining plant records relating to wastewater
discharge as specified by the city and affording the city access thereto.
   (H)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates, or other appropriate limits when
incompatible pollutants are proposed or present in the user's wastewater
discharge.
   (I)   Additional requirements as determined by the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.088 CITY MAY ADOPT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
   (A)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
pretreatment program of the city.
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures.
   (C)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction.
   (D)   Fees for permit application.
   (E)   Fees for filing appeals.
   (F)   Fees for consistent removal of pollutants otherwise subject to federal
pretreatment standards.
   (G)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.089 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL; NOTIFICATION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued for a specified period of time but in no event
shall a permit extend beyond three years of the date of issuance. Thirty days
prior to the expiration of the permit, the user shall apply to the city for a
renewal of the permit.
   (B)   The user shall be notified in writing of any proposed changes in his
permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. The notice shall
include a specified time schedule for compliance. This time schedule shall be
based on practical delivery and construction time requirements and shall become
part of the permit.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.090 PERMITS NOT TO BE REASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, OR SOLD.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned, transferred
or sold to a new owner, or significantly changed operation.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT VIOLATORS.
   Once each year, the city may show in the local newspaper with the largest
circulation which industrial users were significantly violating pretreatment
standards. A significant violation is one which: remains uncorrected 45 days
after notification of noncompliance, is part of a pattern of noncompliance over
a 12-month period, involves a failure to accurately report noncompliance, or
results in the city taking emergency action.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.092 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any user who violates any of these rules and regulations or applicable
state and/or federal regulations, or any of the following conditions which are
hereby made part of every permit, whether stated therein or not, is subject to
having his permit revoked:
      (1)   The user shall factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge.
      (2)   The user shall report significant changes in operation or in
wastewater constituents and characteristics.
      (3)   The user shall allow reasonable access to his premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring.
      (4)   The user shall comply with each and every term and condition of the
permit.
   (B)   Before a permit is revoked, the user shall be sent written notice 15
days in advance of the date of a hearing by the city. The user shall have the
opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. The city will notify the user
in writing of his decision by no later than 15 days after the hearing.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.093 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city may require any industrial user to construct, at the user's
own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems and may also
require sampling or metering equipment to be provided, installed and operated
at the user's expense.
   (B)   The monitoring facility shall be situated on the user's premises and
located so that it will not
be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (C)   The personnel of the city shall have access to the monitoring
facilities at all times for inspection and sample collection as stated in §§
51.210 through
51.212 in these rules and regulations. If the facilities are locked, special
arrangements shall be made to allow access. The city personnel shall also have
the right to set up monitoring devices at the facilities. There shall be ample
room in or near such monitoring facilities to allow accurate sampling and
compositing of samples for analysis. The monitoring facilities, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (D)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city
requirements and all applicable local agency construction standards and
specifications. Unless a time extension is otherwise granted by the Operator,
construction shall be completed within 90 days following the issuance of
written notification by the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.094 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF CITY PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Persons or occupants of premises of any industrial user where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the employees of the city ready
access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of
inspection and sampling or for the performance of any of their duties as stated
in §§
51.210 through
51.212 in these rules and regulations. The city shall have the right to set up
on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or
metering operations.
   (B)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into the premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that upon presentation
of suitable identification, personnel from the city will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purpose of performing their specific responsibilities.
While performing the work, the city personnel shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the user.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.095 PUBLIC INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections (as
per §
51.210 of these rules and regulations) shall be available to the public for
other governmental agency without restriction unless the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, State Disposal System
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the city as confidential, shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the city
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.096 APPROVAL OF FACILITIES BY CITY NO GUARANTEE OF FUNCTION.
   Approval of proposed facilities or equipment by the city does not, in any
way, guarantee that these facilities or equipment will function in the manner
described by their constructor or manufacturer; nor shall it relieve a person
of the responsibility to enlarge or otherwise modify such facilities to
accomplish the intended purpose.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.097 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in these rules and regulations shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person
whereby any industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted
by the city for transport and or treatment; subject to payment therefor.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.098 FALSIFICATION.
   No person shall knowingly make any false statements, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to these rules and regulations or
wastewater discharge permit. No person shall falsify, tamper with, or knowingly
render inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under these rules
and regulations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM SURCHARGE
§ 51.110 DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by a sewer connection and which
discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquid, other
than “normal strength sewage,” either directly or indirectly into the
wastewater treatment system under the management of the city shall be charged
and shall pay a wastewater treatment system surcharge in addition to the
wastewater treatment system service charge.
   (B)   The surcharge shall be determined on the basis of any combination or
all of three constituents of the wastewater:
      (1)   Total suspended solids (§
51.002).
      (2)   BOD (§
51.002).
      (3)   Kjeldahl nitrogen (§
51.002).
      (4)   Grease from restaurants.
   (C)   When the concentrations of any one, any combination or all of these
four constituents exceed the values for “normal strength sewage” (see §
51.002), the excess concentrations shall be subject to charges at a rate
calculated from the following formula except for grease from restaurants, this
surcharge will be based on actual cost of material and labor:
         R = A(SS-300) + B(BOD-240) + C(TKN-30)
                     1,000,000
   Wherein:
    R = Surcharge rate in dollars per hundred cubic feet of wastewater flow.
    SS = Suspended solids — See §
51.002.
   BOD = Biochemical oxygen demand — See §
51.002.
   TKN = Total kjeldahl nitrogen — See §
51.002.
   300 = Maximum suspended solids in normal strength sewage.
   240 = Maximum BOD in normal strength sewage.
    30 = Maximum kjeldahl nitrogen in normal strength sewage.
   A, B and C are numerical factors related to unit costs of providing primary
and secondary treatment for the indicated pollutants. The values shall be:
   A =
   B =      (Values to be furnished upon request)
   C =
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.111 INDUSTRIAL WASTE QUESTIONNAIRE.
   Each such person shall complete and file with the city an industrial waste
questionnaire containing pertinent information on the quantity of flow and a
chemical analysis of the wastes to be discharged before said discharge begins.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.112 OBSERVATION CHAMBERS.
   When required by the city the owner of any property discharging such wastes
shall install a suitable chamber or chambers in the building sewer to permit
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastewater from his premises.
Such chamber shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
city, shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible to personnel of the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.113 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   Except as modified to meet conditions at the wastewater treatment plant,
measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of such wastewaters
shall be determined in accordance with “Standard Analysis Methods.”
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.114 RESULTS OF SAMPLING.
   (A)   The strength of the wastewaters shall be determined from samples taken
at the aforementioned chamber at such time(s) and of such duration(s) and in
such manner as the city may elect or at any place mutually agreed upon between
the owner and the city. The results of routine sampling and analysis by the
owner may also be used in determining the amount of the surcharged after
verification by the city.
   (B)   The strength so found by analysis shall be used in determining the
amount of the surcharge. The surcharge shall be applied to the total water
consumption, less that portion exempted by the city and shall be based on the
average strength of all wastes discharged to the wastewater treatment system.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.115 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF CITY PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to enter and set up, on company
property, such devices as are necessary to conduct a gauging and sampling
operation and to begin such operation without advance notice to the company.
While performing the work, the city personnel will observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company.
   (B)   Where a company or premises has security measures in force which
require proper identification and clearance before entry into said company or
premises is granted, such company or premises shall either make the necessary
arrangements with their security guards that upon showing proper identification
personnel from the city will be permitted to enter, without delays, for the
purpose of obtaining samples of wastes being discharged at the various sampling
points; or the company or premises shall install suitable gauging and sampling
manholes outside the security limits which manholes will, at all times, be
immediately accessible to city personnel.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.116 ANNUAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM SURCHARGE SAMPLE.
   (A)   The city shall conduct one wastewater treatment system (WTS) surcharge
sample per location per calendar year, without cost to the person, industry or
company. This sample shall be obtained any time during the calendar year and
shall serve as the basis for future WTS surcharges. If a person, industry or
company requests, in writing, another WTS sample before the normally scheduled
yearly sample by the city, the full cost of the sample (including labor,
equipment and analytical costs), shall be payable by the requesting party.
After the sample is completed, the new results, higher or lower than the
previous sample, shall become the basis for the WTS surcharge.
   (B)   If a person disagrees with the analysis on which the WTS surcharge is
based, he may request, in writing, an additional sampling and analysis which
shall be conducted in a manner acceptable to the city. The cost of such
additional sampling and analysis shall be borne in full by the requestor.
   (C)   In the event an analysis of the wastes is not furnished to the city
when requested, the WTS surcharge shall be based on a chemical analysis of
similar process or other data acceptable to the city and shall continue in
effect until such time as an analysis of the wastes is submitted by the company
and confirmed by the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.117 EXEMPTION FROM SURCHARGE.
   Where certain types of business and industrial users discharge clear water,
not contaminated as the usual wastewater entering the wastewater treatment
system, and if such user shall install and have in operation equipment to
prevent said water from entering the wastewater treatment system, they shall be
exempt from payment of WTS surcharges for the water so eliminated. The owner
shall install a meter or meters at his expense to measure the amount of water
so disposed of, or diverted.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.118 MEASUREMENT OF WASTEWATER BY MEANS OTHER THAN METERS.
   If the city finds that it is not practical to measure the quantity of
wastewater by meters, it shall determine the quantity of wastewater entering
the wastewater treatment system in any manner or by any method it may find
reasonable and practical. The quantity so determined shall be the quantity of
wastewater to which the WTS surcharge shall be applied.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.119 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   If the findings, order or decision of the city made in pursuance of
the provisions or of these rules and regulations are not acceptable to any
industry, such industry shall have the right to appeal as follows.
   (B)   Two professional engineers shall be chosen, one by the industry, and
the other by the city, neither of whom shall be a regular employee of either
principal. Such persons shall act as referees. As soon as such referees are
chosen, the Mayor shall file with them a certified copy of the complaint and
the decision of the city and it shall be the duty of such referees to
investigate the complaint and to agree either to affirm or reject the findings
of the city and file a report with the city within a reasonable time, setting
down their decision. If the referees so chosen are unable to agree, they shall
choose a third professional engineer and the decision or recommendation of the
majority shall be reported to the city. The decision or ruling of the majority
of referees shall be final and shall be reported to the industry and to the
city.
   (C)   The fees and expenses of the referee appointed by the industry shall
be paid by the industry and the fees and expenses of the referee appointed by
the city shall be paid by the city. The fees and expenses of the third referee
shall be equally divided between the industry and the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
PLANS FOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS
§ 51.130 APPROVAL OF CITY REQUIRED.
   No sanitary sewer which discharges either directly or indirectly into the
wastewater treatment system under the management of the city wastewater lift
stations or wastewater treatment plants shall be constructed without prior
written approval by the city of the plans therefor, as to concept and detail.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.131 PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR REVIEW.
   Plans submission requirements for review shall be as follows:
   (A)   Concept review.
      (1)   Letter. (To contain the following):
         (a)   A request for plan review and approval.
         (b)   Type of development, e.g., residential, commercial, industrial,
etc. Information as to size of development, number of units, and the like shall
be included.
         (c)   An estimate of sanitary flow generated by the proposed
development.
         (d)   An estimate of cost for the wastewater treatment works,
including a separate item for any wastewater treatment plant or wastewater lift
station proposed in the design.
         (e)   A time schedule for construction of the development in terms of
dwelling units per year or proportion of the estimated flow to be added to the
wastewater treatment system.
      (2)   Plans.
         (a)   Two prints showing proposed development on a 200 scale
topographic map. This plan should show street layouts, existing sanitary,
combined and storm sewers, including sewer numbers, sizes, grades, locations,
and invert elevations. All existing work should be shown with dashed line work.
With solid line work, engineer should show proposed sanitary and storm sewer
locations, sizes, grades and flow arrows (or invert elevations).
         (b)   In lieu of the above, the engineer may elect to submit detailed
construction drawings for concept reviews. In such cases, the same number of
sets as outlined above will be needed. The letter containing the information
requested above will be necessary in either case.
         (c)   Grading plan.
   (B)   Detail review.
      (1)   Prior concept approval.
      (2)   Four sets of detailed plans.
      (3)   Drainage area map.
   (C)   Concurrent concept and detail review. If the nature or simplicity of
the proposed wastewater treatment works is such that concept and detail reviews
can, in the opinion of the city be effectively and efficiently accomplished
concurrently, the city may elect to do so.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.132 SCALE OF DRAWINGS.
   Construction plans shall be drawn on at least 24-inch x 36-inch sheets to a
scale of one inch equals 50 feet. Area plans shall be drawn to a scale of one
inch equals 200 feet. Reduced prints will not be accepted.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.133 ELEVATIONS.
   All elevations proposed and shown shall be referenced to sea level datum and
each set of plans shall show the description and elevation of the public bench
mark (or marks) used in the development survey.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.134 PLANS TO BE SIGNED AND SEALED BY ENGINEER.
   All plans shall bear the signature and seal of the registered professional
engineer who has prepared them.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.135 PLANS REQUIRING STATE APPROVAL.
   Plans requiring the approval of the State of Kentucky Department for Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection will be transmitted by the city
following its approval.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.136 APPROVAL VOID IF NO ACTION TAKEN WITHIN CERTAIN LENGTH OF TIME.
   (A)   Concept approval of proposed wastewater treatment works shall become
void if plans for detailed review have not been submitted within 12 months from
the date of the concept approval letter.
   (B)   Detailed approval of proposed wastewater treatment works shall become
void if construction has not commenced within 12 months (and completed within
36 months) from the date of the approval for construction letter. Concept and
detailed approval may be extended by the Mayor for a period not to exceed 12
months.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.137 DETERMINATION OF THE AMOUNT OF SEWAGE.
   Determination of the amount of sewage shall be as follows:
   (A)   Residential sanitary sewage. The average flow of sanitary sewage shall
be computed on the basis of 100 gallons per capita. The peak flow for various
situations shall be 250 gallons per capita per day.
   (B)   Industrial and/or commercial sewage. The amount of sewage shall be
fixed after consultation with the engineer.
   (C)   Infiltration. An allowance of 1,000 gallons per acre per day for the
gross tributary area of the drainage basin shall be added to the above peak
sanitary flows.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.138 DETERMINATION OF CONDUIT SIZE AND SLOPE.
   (A)   The minimum conduit diameter for sewer proposes (except building
sewers) shall be eight inches. For sewers up to and including 24 inches in
diameter, shall be designed for the above volumes of sewage with the sewer
flowing half full. For sewers 27 inches in diameter, shall be designed for the
above volumes of sewage with the sewer flowing at 0.6 depth and sewers 30
inches in diameter and larger shall be designed for the above volumes of sewage
with the sewer flowing at 0.7 depth. Manning's Formula with an “n” factor of
0.014 in design shall be used.
   (B)   The minimum allowable slope shall be that which results in a velocity
of two feet per second when the conduit flows at ¼ of full depth.
Size of Conduit (Inches) Slope (Percent)
Size of Conduit (Inches) Slope (Percent)
8                        0.50
10                       0.50
12                       0.40
15                       0.30
18                       0.24
21                       0.19
24                       0.16
27                       0.14
 
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.139 MANHOLE PLACEMENT.
   Manholes shall be placed at intersections of two or more sewers; at changes
of size of pipe, alignment, or grades at the head end of the sewer; at curves
on sewers (beginning or end) 30 inches in diameter and larger; and at
intermediate intervals. Maximum spacing shall be 400 feet.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.140 DISTANCE FROM STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The centerline of the sewer shall be a minimum of ten feet from the street
or road right-of-way whenever possible.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.141 BRANCH SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   When branch sewer connections are made to a manhole, the branch line
must be connected at the bench wall level. The bench wall shall be channeled in
such a manner as to direct the incoming flow to the outlet pipe.
   (B)   However, if the main sewer is three feet or more below the branch
sewer, the branch sewer connection shall be made with a drop connection, in
accordance with the city's standards unless a specific variance is granted by
the engineer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.142 COMPRESSION JOINTS.
   All sanitary sewers, including sanitary building sewers and manholes, shall
be built with compression joints, in accordance with the city's specifications
and standards.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.143 CAST IRON PIPES; KEY BLOCKS.
   For sewer slopes 15% or greater, pipe shall be ductile cast iron. For sewer
slopes between 15% and 25%, key blocks shall be provided at every other joint;
for slopes greater than 25%, key blocks shall be provided at every joint.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.144 PIPES IN CONCRETE CRADLE OR ENCASED IN CONCRETE.
   (A)   When it is considered advisable in the judgement of the Operator, the
sewer pipe shall be laid in a concrete cradle, in accordance with the city's
standards.
   (B)   Sewer pipe in creek beds shall be encased in concrete when it is
considered advisable in the judgement of the engineer. When the cover on such
pipe is two feet or less, the pipe shall be ductile cast iron, encased as noted
above.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.145 MANHOLE FRAMES AND COVERS.
   Manholes frames and covers shall be in accordance with the specifications
and standards of the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.146 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in these rules and regulations shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangements between the city and developer
or as preventing the city from stopping issuance of additional permits or
revoking outstanding permits should conditions warrant such action in the
opinion of city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.147 WORKMANSHIP AND MATERIALS; DEFECTS.
   All workmanship and all materials furnished shall comply with the
requirements of the approved plans and specifications. If at any time within
one year after the date of the final inspection, any defect should appear,
which in the opinion of the city is due to inferior materials or workmanship
the developer guarantees that he will do immediately, without cost to the city,
whatever is necessary to remedy the defects. The city will notify the developer
in writing of the defects and the repairs to be made and the developer agrees
to begin the repairs within ten days from the date of notice. If the developer
fails to begin repairs within ten days, the city may forthwith cause the
defects to be remedied and charge the cost and expense thereof to the
developer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.148 LEAKAGE CHECK.
   All sewers that discharge to the city wastewater treatment works either
directly or indirectly, shall be subjected to a leakage check. This test shall
be an air test of normal standard specifications. The entire cost of the test
(s) shall be borne by the contractor and/or city or developer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.149 SANITARY SEWERS IN SUBDIVISIONS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers in subdivisions under construction shall be sealed
where they connect to the existing sewers. This work shall be done only in the
presence of a city inspector or Operator.
    (B)   After construction has been completed and the sewers in the
subdivision have been tested and found to be substantially completed and
operational, the seal(s) shall be removed by the developer in the presence of a
city inspector or Operator.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.150 INSPECTION BY CITY.
   (A)   All building sewers which connect either directly or indirectly into
the wastewater treatment system under the management of the city shall be
inspected by and subject to testing under the supervision of the city or its
designated representative.
   (B)   All sewers which will connect either directly or indirectly into the
wastewater treatment system under the management of the city which are to be
constructed by any person shall be inspected by and subject to the testing
under the supervision of the city or its designated representative.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.151 SANITARY SEWERS TO MEET SPECIFICATIONS OF CITY.
   The design and construction of all sanitary sewers connected either directly
or indirectly to the wastewater treatment system managed by the city shall, as
a minimum, meet all published standards and specifications as established by
the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS AND PERMITS
§ 51.165 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.
   No person shall install or cause to be installed, any sewer service
connection, building sewer, or make any service connection to any public sewer
within the city without a plumbing permit secured from the State Plumbing
Program Director, Kentucky Department for Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection and the construction shall conform to the requirements of the
Kentucky State Plumbing Law and Code, Rules and Regulations. The construction
shall also conform to the rules and regulations of the city as specified herein
and to any other public corporation having jurisdiction and control of the
public sewer to which the connection is being made or will be made. Where the
connection is being made to a city sewer, a written permit must also be secured
from the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.166 CONNECTIONS OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER SOURCES PROHIBITED.
   No person or public corporation shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior or interior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.167 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building that is to be occupied unless otherwise approved by the city. The
minimum size shall be four inches for a single- family unit.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.168 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS TO MANHOLES PROHIBITED.
   Building sewer connections to a manhole are prohibited unless otherwise
approved by the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.169 MATERIAL STANDARDS; MINIMUM GRADE.
   The building sewer shall be constructed of materials meeting the standards
of the city and requirements of the Kentucky State Plumbing Law and Code, Rules
and Regulations. It shall be laid at a minimum grade of ¼ inch per lineal foot
from the building to the public sewer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.170 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Building sewers shall be constructed as part of the improvement to the
property line of the premises served.
   (B)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
curb or property line, if a service connection sewer is available at this
location. Where no curb or property line located service connection sewer is
available, the owner of the building sewer shall extend the building sewer to
the public sewer and connect to the nearest wye or tee available on the public
sewer. If no wye or tee exists on the public sewer within the immediate
vicinity of the frontage of the lot or tract of land that the building sewer is
to serve, the owner of the building sewer shall have a wye or tee installed on
the public sewer, in accordance with requirements hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of
any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient
to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform
grade and in straight alignment. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (D)   Whenever the public sewer is deep enough to serve basements, all
sanitary fixtures should be connected to the public sewer by gravity. This
connection should include all laundry facilities and the basement floor drain.
Backwater traps are recommended for the basement floor drain when connections
are made in this manner.
   (E)   In those instances where the public sewer is not of sufficient depth
to serve the basement fixtures, the owner will be permitted to install a high
level connection and pump laundry waste and the waste from the basement floor
drain to the sanitary sewer by means of a sump pump.
   (F)   The removal of an existing sump pump shall be at the option of the
owner. However, if it is to remain in service to pump sanitary sewage into the
building sewer (including laundry waste and the basement floor drain), all
foundation drains or other groundwater or storm water connections thereto shall
be permanently disconnected therefrom and handled in some other manner. If it
is to remain in place to pump ground water or storm water, all sanitary
connections shall be broken and sealed and the discharge from the sump pump
shall be piped to a proper storm drain, natural outlet, or drainage field. An
abandoned drainage field or drainage well may be used for disposal of
groundwater or storm water.
   (G)   Connections to existing public sewers where wyes or tees are not
available shall be made by one of the following methods:
      (1)   A wye or tee saddle shall be installed according to details shown
on District Standard Detail, copy of which is available at the district office.
      (2)   A tee saddle shall be installed, using a Wheeler-Pilot Hole Cutter
(tapping machine) or equivalent machine and a saddle expressly made to fit into
the hole formed by the machine. The saddle shall be sealed to the sewer with an
epoxy material formulated for bonding to the sewer material and the saddle. The
saddle material may be a corrosion resistant material or a polyester. The
strength of the installed and bonded saddle shall exceed the strength of a
factory installed tee.
      (3)   A standard wye or tee pipe section shall be installed, by cutting
out the sewer pipe, maintaining squared ends, inserting the standard wye or tee
pipe section, and sealing each joint with a ribber collar adapter. Each joint
space between the existing pipe and the inserted section shall not exceed one
inch. The collar adapter shall be compressed to the pipe by means of two
stainless steel screw-takeup bands.
   (H)   The details and construction of all connections shall be inspected and
approved by the Mayor or his authorized representative and by the Plumbing
Inspector.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.171 GRAVITY FLOW.
   (A)   In the development of residential subdivisions with sanitary sewers,
all lots shall be served by connections to the sanitary sewer system either by
gravity or by means of a pump or ejector. No individual disposal devices will
be permitted.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the sanitary sewer system, any sanitary sewage carried by such
building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the
building sewer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.172 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR CLEANING, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR OF BUILDING
SEWER.
   The owner of the premises served by a sewer shall be responsible for the
operation and cleaning of the building sewer from the building to the owner's
subject property line and for the maintenance, operation, cleaning, repair and
reconstruction of the building sewer from the building to the owner's subject
property line. However, the city will charge the premises owner for service of
sewer from owners property line to the city's main sewer line on a cost basis.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.173 PERMITS TO BE ISSUED ONLY TO PERSONS IN SEWER CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS;
RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Permits to connect building sewers, to open, or alter any public
sanitary or combined sewer or appurtenance will be issued only to a person
engaged in the business of sewer construction.
   (B)   The person to whom a connection permit is issued will be held
responsible for the proper installation of the building sewer in accordance
with these rules and regulations, subject, however, to the condition that he or
it holds the city harmless from any loss or damage.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.174 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; COSTS AND EXPENSES; INSPECTION.
   (A)   The owner or his agent shall make application for a building sewer
connection permit on a special form to be obtained from the city. The
application for permit shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgement of the city. A separate
building sewer connection permit must be obtained for each building sewer
connection.
   (B)   No unauthorized person or public corporation shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any city sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city at
least three working days before commencing work.
      (1)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection
of the building sewer to the city sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (2)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city
and the Plumbing Inspector at least there days in advance when the building
sewer is ready for inspection and when it is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection to the service connection sewer and the final connection
to an existing building sewer or building drain shall be made under the
supervision of the Operator, the Plumbing Inspector and/or their
representative.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.175 SEWER HOOKUPS FOR SECOND GENERATION HOMEOWNERS.
   Any person who owned a home at the time the city sewer system was installed,
and remains the owner of that property, shall pay the full $400 hookup fee at
the time hookup is requested to be installed at that location. Any previous
home owner who did not advise the new owner that the property is not connected
to the city sewer system shall not be given back more than the $400 sewer
connection fee.
§ 51.176 SEPTIC TANKS TO BE ABANDONED.
   Existing septic tanks shall be abandoned insofar as disposal of sanitary
sewage is concerned when the building sewer is connected to the public sewer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
DISPOSAL OF HOLDING TANK WASTES
§ 51.190 DISCHARGE INTO WATER COURSE OR STORM SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge holding tank wastes into any water course or storm
sewer.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.191 WASTES ORIGINATING WITHIN THE CITY.
   Holding tank wastes originating within the city shall be discharged into the
city's main wastewater treatment plant or designated locations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.192 WASTES ORIGINATING OUTSIDE CITY.
   Holding tank wastes originating outside the boundaries of the city are
prohibited from being discharged into the city's wastewater treatment system
without a permit which will require a description (household waste). If
industrial, a detailed description such as required by NPDES permits is
required, and the city's NPDES limits cannot be exceeded.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.193 INTO CITY SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No sewage disposed shall be permitted into the city sewerage system.
§ 51.194 DISCHARGES OF OTHER THAN DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, either directly or
indirectly, into the wastewater treatment system of the city, wastes other than
domestic sewage without the prior written approval of the city.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
POWERS, AUTHORITY, AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.210 ACCESS TO RECORDS AND INFORMATION.
   The Operator and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall have at reasonable times access to and
copy any records or information pertaining to any effluent which is being
monitored in accordance with the provisions of these rules and regulations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.211 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Operator and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of effluent record inspection and/or transcribing,
surveying, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing of all
wastewater treatment works under the management of the city in accordance with
the provisions of these rules and regulations.
   (B)   The Operator and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credential and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties, through which a proper easement is on record, for the purpose of
effluent record inspection and/or transcribing, surveying, inspection,
maintenance, operation, repair and reconstruction of any portion of the
wastewater treatment system under the management of the city subject to the
terms of the easement.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.212 SERVICE OF NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   The Operator and other employees of the city shall have the authority to
serve notices of violations of these rules and regulations.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.213 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AVAILABLE TO CITY.
   If any person or public corporation is found to be violating any provisions
of these rules and regulation the city may:
   (A)   Enforce these regulations by mandamus or otherwise;
   (B)   Remove any improper construction or close any connections made
improperly or in violation of the regulations;
   (C)   Revoke any permit issued pursuant to these regulations;
   (D)   Recover by civil action from any person or public corporation
violating any regulation, a sum not less than $100 nor more than $5,000 for
each offense, together with costs (refer to §
51.999).
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.214 VIOLATION CONSTITUTES NUISANCE.
   The installation of any facility by any person or public corporation
contrary to the provisions of these regulations shall constitute a nuisance and
shall be abated by injunction upon proper application by anyone aggrieved
including the city, the Operator, the State Board of Health, or the County
Board of Health.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.215 CEASE AND DESIST INJUNCTION.
   Any person or public corporation found to be operating in violation of these
regulations shall be compelled by injunction to cease and desist upon proper
application by anyone aggrieved, including the city, the Operator, the State
Board of Health, or the County Board of Health.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.216 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any person or public corporation willfully failing to comply with these
regulations shall be liable for damages caused by such failure and for the cost
of renewing any construction damaged or destroyed.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty has been provided, or any permit condition, or who violates
any cease and desist order, prohibition, effluent limitation, or pretreatment
or toxicity standard, shall be liable civilly to a penalty not to exceed $1,000
for individuals and $5,000 for corporations. Each day in which violation occurs
shall be considered as separate violation.
      (1)   The city may assess a penalty of up to $1,000 for each such
violation and add such penalty to the user's charges and fees. Such assessment
shall be offset against any subsequent penalty otherwise imposed for the same
violation.
      (2)   Any such penalty imposed shall not be construed as liquidated
damages and shall accrue in addition to any liability for any consequential
damages resulting from the violation for which the penalty imposed.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
51.098 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or
by imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
51.190 through
51.194 shall be subject to a penalty of $100 per violation. In addition, such
person shall be liable for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by reason of
such violation.
(Ord., passed 7-13-87)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
76.   SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Overweight vehicles
   
71.06   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Noise, smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
Vehicle Stop Reporting Policy
   
71.60   Purpose
   
71.61   Definitions
   
71.62   Training
   
71.63   Discipline
   
71.64   Data collection and reporting
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate upon the city streets
or roads, and upon any state highway within the city over which the Secretary
of the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet has not assumed responsibility pursuant
to KRS 189.233, any vehicle, object, or contrivance, which is used primarily
for the commercial purpose of hauling goods or animals, and has three or more
weight-supporting axles.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to vehicles, objects, or
contrivances entering the city for the purpose of making or accepting a
delivery within the city or of accepting or depositing a load of cargo or part
thereof in the city; nor shall it apply to fire fighting apparatus or medical
service vehicle belonging to any city, county, special district volunteer fire
department, or medical service entity.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized but not required, to post signs notifying the
public of this section at places he deems appropriate within the city.
(Ord. 540.6, passed 5-9-88) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 SPEED LIMITS.
   On all city streets other than those set out in Ch. 74, Schedule III, or
otherwise set by ordinance, no vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess
of 20 miles per hour.
(Ord. 540.5, passed 3-12-90; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 12-12-11) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish speed limits, see KRS 189.390(4)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator's license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) below shall apply to any driver
approaching a stationary:
         (a)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
         (b)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some
type of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard for
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 NOISE, SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   (A)   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a
minimum of noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other
traffic, and to promote the public safety.
   (B)   The use of any mechanical devices operated by containing the engine’s
compression and used for purposes of assisting braking or deceleration on any
semi-tractor or other large truck, sometimes known as “engine brakes”,
“unmuffled compression brake”, or “mechanical exhaust braking device” is
prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply to vehicles used in providing
emergency, rescue, fire, ambulance, or other emergency services used in
responding to an emergency event. The city shall cause notices to be posted
and/or erect signs indicating the prohibition against such engine brakes.
(KRS 189.020) (Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 12-10-12) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
VEHICLE STOP REPORTING POLICY
§ 71.60 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Vehicle stops and traffic enforcement are valuable means of
accomplishing the duties inherent in law enforcement. As important as these
tools can be, the protection of, and the preservation of the constitutional and
civil rights of individuals remains the paramount concern of government and law
enforcement in particular.
   (B)   To safeguard these rights, law enforcement personnel shall not engage
in any behavior or activities that are racial profiling. The decision of an
officer to make a vehicle stop, conduct a search subsequent to a stop, or seize
property as the result of a vehicle stop, shall be solely based on articulable
reasonable suspicions, observed violations of law or probable cause. Any search
or seizure associated with a vehicle stop, whether voluntary or involuntary,
shall comply with accepted constitutional and legal provisions.
(Ord. 2000-0011, passed 12-11-00)
Cross-reference:
   Racial Profiling, see §
35.07
§ 71.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RACIAL PROFILING. A process that motivates the initiation of a vehicle stop,
detention and/other enforcement activity based solely on an individual's actual
or perceived race, ethnicity, gender, or other characteristic attributed to an
individual as a member of a such group, or making discretionary decisions
during the course of the vehicle stop or executing law enforcement duties based
on the above stated considerations. Nothing in this policy shall preclude an
officer from relying on an individual's actual or perceived race, ethnicity,
gender, or other characteristics as a tool in the investigation of a crime, a
possible crime or violation of law or statute.
   SEARCH. Any physical search by a law enforcement officer based on either
consent or probable cause for the purpose of determining if evidence of a
violation of law is present. Search does not mean a visual inspection or other
inspection of the interior, exterior or contents of the vehicle of the motor
vehicle permitted by law not consistent with legal definition of a search.
(Ord. 2000-0011, passed 12-11-00)
§ 71.62 TRAINING.
   All officers shall complete the training related to racial profiling which
shall be included in the Department of Criminal Justice Basic Training Academy
and mandatory annual in-service training. Such training shall comply with
federal law, state statutory provisions, applicable case law and other
applicable laws, regulations, and established rules.
(Ord. 2000-0011, passed 12-11-00)
§ 71.63 DISCIPLINE.
   Any officer who violates a provision of this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action as deemed appropriate by the agency.
(Ord. 2000-0011, passed 12-11-00)
§ 71.64 DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Upon the agency's election to participate in the collection of data as
it relates to vehicle stops and racial profiling, officers shall obtain the
race, ethnicity and gender of all persons as required above. The officer shall
not solicit such information from the affected individuals, but the information
shall be derived from the officer's observations of the race, ethnicity, and
gender or the officer's perception of the individual's race, ethnicity and
gender. No information shall be placed on the form to establish the actual
identity of the individuals who have been stopped, cited, searched or who have
had property seized.
   (B)   Subsequent to all vehicle stops made by an officer, all required
information concerning the race, ethnicity and gender of the driver and
occupants of the motor vehicle shall be entered on the KSP Vehicle Stop
Reporting Form.
   (C)   The completed KSP Vehicle Stop Reporting Forms shall be forwarded to
the Secretary of Justice, or his designee, who shall compile an annual report
based on the fiscal year (July 1 through June 30). The Secretary of Justice
shall deliver a composite report of the submitting agencies to the Governor and
appropriate members of the Kentucky General Assembly by October 1st of each
year.
(Ord. 2000-0011, passed 12-11-00)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
71.06 shall, upon conviction, be subject to the same fine as set forth in the
fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Parking on private lots
Impounding
   
72.20   Remodel or impoundment of vehicles authorized
   
72.21   Reserved
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing or cause it to stop
or to be left standing upon any portion of a public street or roadway;
provided, however, that this section shall not be construed to prevent parking
in front of a private residence off the roadway or street in the city where
such parking is otherwise permitted, as long as the vehicle so parked does not
impede the flow of traffic or the ingress and egress to and from the private
property of others. This division (A) shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been disabled on the right-of-way of such a
highway in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid the
occupation of the shoulder of a street or roadway or impracticable to remove it
from the shoulder of the highway until repairs have been made or sufficient
help obtained for its removal. In no event shall a disabled vehicle remain on
the shoulder of a public street or roadway for 24 hours or more;
      (2)   Motor vehicles when required to stop in obedience to the provisions
of any section of the Kentucky Revised Statutes or any traffic ordinance,
regulation, sign, or the command of any peace officer;
      (3)   Vehicles operating as common carriers of passengers for hire and
school buses taking passengers on such vehicles or discharging passengers
therefrom, provided that no such vehicle shall stop for such purposes at a
place on the highway which does not afford reasonable visibility to approaching
motor vehicles from both directions; or
      (4)   Any vehicle required to stop by reason of an obstruction to its
progress.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
      (2)   On a sidewalk.
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway or within six inches
thereof.
      (5)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device.
      (8)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into
any such prohibited area.
(Ord. 540.3, passed 7-13-87) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross reference:
   Stopping and parking, KRS 189.450(5), (6)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
   (H)   Provisions of this section shall apply to those portions of Asbury
Pointe Drive, Sycamore Circle and Cedar Pointe Lane that are in front of fire
hydrants or other places as painted yellow and designated as “no parking” areas
at the direction of the Mayor or his designee.
   (I)   There shall be no semi-truck, semi-tractor or other similar large
truck or heavy vehicle parking on the city right-of-way of First Street,
between East Main and East High Streets. "No Semi-Truck Parking" signs shall be
visibly placed in the area at the direction of the Mayor or his designee.
(Am. Ord. 1997-010, passed 5-12-97; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 6-13-16) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING ON PRIVATE LOTS.
   (A)    Any owner or attendant of a privately-owned parking lot may have a
towing company remove from the lot any unauthorized parked vehicle. A towing
company engaged to remove such vehicle shall have a lien on the vehicle in
accordance with state law.
   (B)   Every operator of a parking lot covered by the provisions of division
(A) above shall post signs stating thereon that the parking lot is privately
owned and unauthorized vehicles will be towed away the owner's expense.
(KRS 189.725) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 REMOVAL OR IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
roadway in violation of this chapter, or other parking ordinances of the city,
he may move or cause to be moved the vehicle, or require the operator or other
person in charge of the vehicle to move it. The police officer may cause the
vehicle to be removed by ordering any person engaged in the business of storing
or towing motor vehicles to remove the vehicle to a site chosen by such person.
Ownership of the vehicle shall be determined by the police officer's
enforcement agency through the vehicle's license plates, serial number, or
other means of determining ownership.
   (B)   When any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon a bridge or
causeway or in a tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety as provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. 540.3, passed 7-13-87)
§ 72.21 RESERVED.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
KRS 376.275(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2) of this
section, may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have
been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1),
ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale
of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
division shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to division (C) below.
   (C)   (1)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (5) above.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Motorcycles
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
Golf Carts
   
73.15   Regulations
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.15 REGULATIONS.
   The City Council of the City of Warsaw, in Gallatin County, Kentucky, does
hereby authorize and regulate the operation of golf carts on the public
roadways specified herein that are under its jurisdiction and that lie within
five road miles of an entrance to the Sugar Bay Golf Course.
   (A)   The golf carts authorized and regulated by this subchapter are those
as defined in KRS 189.286(1)(a).
   (B)   The public roadways under the jurisdiction of the city upon which a
golf cart may be operated are as follows:
Bea Scott Drive       Beechwood Circle
Blue Heron Blvd.      Bogardus Lane
Boaz Drive            Brown Street
Carlisle Avenue       Cedar Pointe Lane
Center Street         Davis Drive
Dorman Drive
East High Street      East Market Street
East Pearl Street     First Street
Fifth Street          Fourth Street
Franklin Street       Hackberry Street
Hendrix Avenue        Hickory Lane
Kirby Ave             Leonard Street
Locust Street         Lone Oak Street
Main Cross Street
(North of Courthouse)
Meadow Creek Lane     Morton Avenue
Mourning Dove Drive   Park Avenue
Park Road             Payne Avenue
Red Cross Avenue      Riverview Drive
Roberta Drive         Sandpiper Lane
Second Street         Smith Avenue
Stafford Circle       Sycamore Circle
Third Street
Washington Avenue     Waterworks Boulevard
Weldon Way            West High Street
West Market Street    West Pearl Street
 
   (C)   Any golf cart operated on a designated public roadway pursuant to this
subchapter shall:
      (1)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city;
      (2)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on the specified roadways within the city; and
      (3)   Be inspected annually by a certified inspector designated by the
county sheriff and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation
pursuant to KRS 189.286(3)(c).
   (D)   A person may operate a golf cart on the specified public roadways
within the city if:
      (1)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is 35 miles
or less;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross the roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour;
      (3)   The operator has a valid operator's license in his or her
possession;
      (4)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
      (5)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (E)   A golf cart operating on a specified public roadway under this
subchapter shall be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or
operator, and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times
of operation on a public roadway.
   (F)   All other terms and provisions of KRS 189.286, other Kentucky
statutes, and ordinances of the City of Warsaw, shall be followed by the owner
and operator of the golf cart and shall be subject to penalties, fines and
citations as are otherwise applicable in the code of ordinances of the City of
Warsaw, and pursuant to the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-13-13) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   “Children at play” areas
      
V.   “No Outlet” signs
      
VI.   “Do Not Block Drive” signs
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person operating a vehicle upon the streets, roads or alleys
within the city, shall, when confronted with any stop sign placed in accordance
with this schedule, bring the operated vehicle to a full and complete stop
before proceeding with the vehicle past the stop sign, or before proceeding
with the vehicle into the intersection at which the sign is placed, whichever
first requires that the vehicle be stopped. The Mayor is authorized to cause
stop signs to be placed at the following locations:
Street Location of Stop Sign Ord. No. Date
Street                  Location of Stop Sign    Ord. No.    Date
Cedar Pointe Lane       1 stop sign at Ashbury   1997-002    1-13- 97
                        Pointe Dr.
                        1 stop sign northbound
Center Avenue           at E. High Street        540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        and southbound at US 42
Center Street           3 way stop at Oak Street 1995-015    10-9- 95
Dorman Road             1 stop sign northbound   540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        at US 42
Fifth Street            1 stop sign at US 42     540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        southbound
                        1 stop sign northbound
First Street            and southbound at US 42  540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        at E. High Street
                        1 stop sign at West High
                        northbound and
                        southbound
Fourth Street           1 stop sign southbound   540.5       11-9-87; 3-12- 90
                        at US 42
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        at US 42
Intersection of         There are to be
Franklin Street,        stoplights as determined
Washington Street, Main by the Kentucky          540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
Cross Street and US 42  Department of
                        Transportation.
                        1 stop sign eastbound at
High Street East and    Franklin Street          540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
West                    1 stop sign westbound at
                        Main Cross
                        1 stop sign eastbound
                        and westbound at Fourth
                        Street
Kirby Avenue            1 stop sign eastbound    540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        and westbound at Third
                        Street
                        1 stop sign eastbound at
                        Sparta Pike
Kirby Circle            1 stop sign eastbound at 540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        Fourth Street
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        at Riverview Drive
                        stop sign northbound and
Leonard Street          southbound at Roberta    540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
                        Avenue
                        1 stop sign southbound
                        at US 42
Locust Street East and  1 stop sign westbound
West                    and eastbound at Main    540.5    11-9-87; 3-12-90
                        Cross
                        1 stop sign westbound at
                        Fourth Street
                        1 stop sign westbound
                        and eastbound at Third
                        Street
Market Street East and  1 stop sign westbound
West                    and eastbound at Main    540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
                        Cross
                        1 stop sign westbound
                        and westbound at Second
                        Street
                        1 stop sign eastbound at
                        First Street
Morton Avenue           1 stop sign northbound   540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        at US 42
                        1 stop sign eastbound at
Oak Street              Center Avenue            540.5       3-12-90
                        3 way stop at Center     1995-015    10-9-95
                        Street
Park Avenue             1 stop sign westbound at 540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90;
                        Sparta Pike
                        1 stop sign eastbound at
Park Road               Dorman Drive             540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
                        1 stop sign westbound at
                        Center Avenue
Payne Avenue            1 stop sign southbound   540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        at US 42
                        1 stop sign westbound at
                        Fourth Street
                        1 stop sign westbound
                        and eastbound at Third
                        Street

                        1 stop sign westbound    540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
Pearl Street East and   and eastbound at Sparta
West                    Pike                                 11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        1 stop sign eastbound at 540.5   
                        First Street
                        1 stop sign eastbound at
                        Center Avenue
                        1 stop sign on Short
                        Section Between West
                        Pearl and Sparta Pike
Red Cross Avenue        1 stop sign eastbound at 540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        Fourth Street
                        1 stop sign westbound at
                        intersection with Brown
Riverview Drive         Ave. (where currently    1994-006    6-13- 94
                        traffic exits the
                        parking lot of the
                        Barbecue Plant)
Roberta Avenue          1 stop sign westbound at 540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        Leonard Street
                        1 stop sign at Roberta
                        where it intersects with 1988-2      1-9-89
Roberta Drive           Leonard Street           1995-001    2-13- 95
                        At the intersection with
                        Gallatin IGA parking lot
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        at E. Locust Street
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        and southbound at E.
Second Street           High Street              540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        and southbound at US 42
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        and southbound at E.
                        Pearl Street
Smith Avenue            1 stop sign westbound at 540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        Sparta Pike
Stafford Subdivision    1 stop sign eastbound at 540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        First Street Road
Sycamore Circle         1 stop sign at Ashbury   1997-002    1-13- 97
                        Pointe Dr.
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        and southbound West High
                        Street
                        1 stop sign southbound
                        at US 42
Third Street            1 stop sign northbound   540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        at US 42
                        1 stop sign southbound
                        at Kirby Avenue
                        1 stop sign northbound
                        at West Locust Street
                        2 stop signs, one in
Third Street            each direction at its    2015-01     1-12-15
                        intersection with Market
                        Street
                        2 stop signs, one in
Third Street            each direction at its    2015-01     1-12-15
                        intersection with Pearl
                        Street
Weldon Way              1 stop sign westbound at 540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12-90
                        First Street
Two Alleys east and     Stop sign northbound and
west of Warsaw          southbound if space      540.5       11-9- 87; 3-12- 90
Furniture Company       permits
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who violates the provisions of this schedule shall
be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100. (Ord. 540.5, passed 3-12-90)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   All motor vehicles shall be driven in the direction of the one-way streets
as designated below.
 
Street          Direction Location                            Ord. No. Date
Carlisle Avenue South     Beginning at US 42 to point joining 620.2    - -
                          Morton Avenue
Morton Avenue   North     From Carlisle Avenue to US 42       620.2    - -
Morton Lane     North     US 42 to High Street                620.2    - -
Roberta Drive   West      From Leonard Street to US 42        1988-2   1-9-89
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour
within the city over the street set out below:
Street                            Ord. No. Date
Bea Scott Street                  2006-08  6-19-06
Carlisle Avenue                   540.5    3-12-90
Center Street                     1995-001 2-13-95
Morton Avenue                     540.5    3-12-90
Stafford Avenue                   540.5    3-12-90
Weldon Way                        540.5    3-12-90
Streets in Blue Heron Subdivision 2011-07  12-12-11
 
   (B)   No vehcile shall be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour
within the city over the streets set out below:
 
Street            Ord. No. Date
Sparta Pike       2011-07  12-12-11
US 42/Main Street 2011-07  12-12-11
Ky 35/Main Cross  2011-07  12-12-11
 
   (C)   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour
within the streets set forth below:
   Sycamore Circle, Cedar Pointe Lane, and Asbury Pointe Drive.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour
within the city over the street set out below:
 
Street        Ord. No. Date
Locust Street 2011-07  12-12-11
 
   (E)   Penalty. Whoever violates the speed limits set forth in this schedule
shall be subject to the same fines as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.394.
(Am. Ord. 1997-010, passed 5-12-97; Am. Ord. 2001-0002, passed 6-11-01; Am.
Ord. 2011-07, passed 12-12-11)
SCHEDULE IV. “CHILDREN AT PLAY” AREAS.
   The Mayor is authorized to cause “Children at Play” signs to be placed on
the following streets:
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street              Location                           Ord. No.  Date
Asbury Pointe Drive                                    2012-08   7-9-12
Beechwood Circle    In Ashbury Pointe                  1998-005  8-10-98
Carlisle Avenue                                        540.5     3-12-90
Cedar Pointe Lane                                      2012-08   7-9-12
Center Street                                          1995-007  5-8-95
First Street        North and south of Stafford Avenue 540.5     3-12-90
Fourth Street                                          1995-013  9-11-95
East High Street                                       2013-12   11-11-13
West High Street                                       2013-12   11-11-13
Hickory Lane                                           2012-08   7-9-12
Locust Street       Four signs to be placed            2000-005  5-8-00    
Locust Street                                          2001-0002 6-11-01
Oak Street                                             1995-007  5-8-95
Mourning Dove Lane                                     2012-08   7-9-12
Park Street                                            1996-011  10-14-96
Red Cross Avenue                                       1995-001  2-13-95
Riverview Drive     Between Leonard Street and Brown   1996-012  12-9-96
                    Street
Sandpiper Lane                                         2012-08   7-9-12
Second Street                                       2012-08   7-9-12
Smith Avenue                                           1995-001  2-13-95
Stafford Avenue                                        1995-001  2-13-95
Weldon Way                                             540.5     3-12-90
 
SCHEDULE V. “NO OUTLET” SIGNS.
   The Mayor is authorized to cause “No Outlet” signs to be placed at the
following locations:
 
Street        Location         Ord. No. Date
Fourth Street Southwest corner 1994-004 2-14-94
Kirby Avenue  Southbound lane  1994-004 2-14-94
 
SCHEDULE VI. “DO NOT BLOCK DRIVE” SIGNS.
   The Mayor is authorized to cause “Do Not Block Drive” signs to be placed at
the following locations:
 
Street               Location                    Ord. No. Date
Alley                By the Gallatin County Jail 1995-001 2-13-95
Ky. 35 and Pearl St. intersection                1995-001 2-13-95
West Market Street   The public parking lot      1995-001 2-13-95
 
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited during certain times
      
II.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
III.   Handicapped parking
      
IV.   Reserved and restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN TIMES.
   (A)   No person shall park or permit a motor vehicle to be parked in the
following locations. This schedule shall only be effective during the hours
between 9:30 p.m. and the following 6:00 a.m. Parking will be permitted during
these hours only by motor vehicles whose occupants are, during the period, in
attendance at an officially sponsored or sanctioned school activity or sporting
event of the Gallatin County Board of Education.
Street or Location
Any part of the area of the city, bounded as follows:
      (1)   On the north by the center line of U.S. Highway 42.
      (2)   On the south by the property of the Gallatin Co. School grounds.
   (B)   Any person violating this schedule shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99. Each 24-hour period shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 4-3-78)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   No parking is permitted in the following locations.
 
Street                       Location                        Ord. No.  Date
Eastern side of Washington   From its intersection with Main
Street                       Street for a distance of 15     2002-0005 6-10-02
                             feet
Intersection of Main Street  Southwest corner (yellow
and Main Cross               curbing and striping for a      1995-001  2-13-95
                             distance of 15 feet)
Intersection of Third Street Southeast corner (yellow
and US 42/Main Street        curbing and striping for a      1994-004  2-14-94
                             distance of 15 feet)
Stafford Avenue                                              540.5     3-12-90
US 42 (north side)           In front of the post office     1992-72   5-11-92
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   The Mayor is authorized to cause “Handicapped Parking” signs to be placed at
the following locations:
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street               Location                            Ord. No.  Date
East Market Street   205 (Masonic Lodge)                 1994-001  2-14-94
High Street          Northeast corner of the Court House 1994-001  2-14-94
                     Square
Locust Street        Shelter House Parking               1998-009  11-9-98
Main Cross/Main      Pocket Park                         1998-009  11-9-98
Market Street        In front of City Hall               1998-009  11-9-98
Market Street/Ky. 35 In City Parking Lot                 1998-009  11-9-98
Washington Street    East side at intersection with High 1994-001  2-14-94
                     Street
                     East side north of no parking zone
Washington Street    (established as being from its      2002-0005 6-10-02
                     intersection with Main Street for a
                     distance of 15 feet)
 
SCHEDULE IV. RESERVED AND RESTRICTED PARKING.
   The Mayor is authorized to cause “Handicapped Parking” signs to be placed at
the following locations:
 
Street      Location                                   Ord. No. Date
High Street North side at the intersection of High and 1995-017 10-9-95
            Washington Streets
 
CHAPTER 76: SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
76.01   Skateboard regulations
   
76.02   Regulations for juveniles
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 SKATEBOARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard, in any of
the following places within the city:
      (1)   On any sidewalk or street in the business district of the city, all
that part of the city described as follows:
         (a)   Pioneer Corner Park;
         (b)   Fredricksburg Landing Park, or on the following streets or
sidewalks;
         (c)   First Street;
         (d)   Second Street;
         (e)   Third Street;
         (f)   Main Cross Street;
         (g)   Fourth Street between Pearl Street and High Street.
      (2)   On any public property where signs are posted prohibiting such use.
      (3)   On any private property unless the owner, or person in charge of
such property has given written consent.
         (a)   The person operating the skateboard shall have in his or her
possession at the time of operation the written consent of the owner or person
in charge of the private property on which he or she is operating the
skateboard.
         (b)   The written consent described in division (A)(3) above shall
grant to the person named therein permission to operate a skateboard on the
property described in the consent No more than one person shall be named as the
permittee on a written consent. A written consent shall be invalid unless the
name of the permittee is written therein. A written consent shall not be
transferable.
         (c)   A person who is the owner of private property in the city, his
or her spouse, dependent children, or tenants and their dependent children who
reside upon the property shall, without procuring the written consent described
in division (A)(3) above, have the right to operate a skateboard on private
property of which they are bona fide owners, or the spouse or dependent
children of the owners, or tenants or dependent children of tenants who reside
upon the property.
   (B)   Skateboards shall yield the right-of-way to other pedestrians using
public sidewalks, and shall not otherwise endanger or interfere with pedestrian
traffic on those sidewalks.
(Ord. 1999.008, passed 7-12-99; Am. Ord. 2005-08, passed 8-8-05) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.02 REGULATIONS FOR JUVENILES.
   (A)   Any juvenile who is in violation of this section shall be issued a
warning citation and any skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, in-line
skates or roller skis utilized by the juvenile in such violation shall be
impounded by the city police department. The skateboard, roller skates, roller
blades, in-line skates or roller skis will be released to the juvenile only
when accompanied to the city Police Department by a parent or guardian, who
will be handed a copy of this section.
   (B)   A juvenile who is in violation of this section for the second time
will suffer the loss of the subject skateboard, for a period of time not
exceeding 30 days. For a second offense, the skateboard will be released to the
juvenile only when that juvenile is accompanied after the 30-day period by a
parent or a guardian to the city Police Department.
(Ord. 1999.008, passed 7-12-99) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   Any parent or guardian who knowingly allows a juvenile to utilize
skateboards in violation of this section shall himself or herself be a violator
of this section and shall be fined upon conviction thereof in an amount of not
less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense. A presumption is hereby
created that if a parent or guardian has been previously handed a copy of this
section in relation to a first or second offense of a juvenile, that the parent
or guardian knowingly allowed the juvenile to use the vehicle in a prohibited
manner.
(Ord. 1999.008, passed 7-12-99)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
97.   CRAIG’S CREEK BOAT RAMP
      
98.   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping vicious animals
   
90.08   Procedure for having a dog declared vicious
   
90.09   Animal Control Officer
   
90.10   Animals as a public nuisance
   
90.11   Agreements; enforcement
   
90.12   Applicability of state law
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Compliance with statutory licensing provisions required
   
90.17   Maximum number of dogs allowed
   
90.18   Accumulation of odor-causing substance
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment or destruction of dogs in violation
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.23   Limitation on reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.24   Leash required
   
90.25   Dog excrement removal
   
90.26   Dogs constituting nuisance
   
90.27   Dangerous dog
   
90.28   Procedure for having animal classified dangerous
   
90.29   Dangerous dog to be properly confined or leashed
   
90.30   Possession of a dangerous dog limited
   
90.31   Dangerous dogs to be registered
   
90.32   Liability insurance required
   
90.33   Possession of a dangerous animal prohibited; exceptions
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    ABANDONMENT shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by
the owner to the animal. (KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to remain on
or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another. Dogs or cats which are not being held securely on a leash, and
which are on any street, alley, or sidewalk, or on any other public place or on
private property without the consent of the private property owner are
considered to be running at large, and as such, a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This section shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered withe U.S. Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws governing animal
research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (D)   Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) of this section arising from the person’s treatment of an equine,
the court may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person,
in addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (E)(1)(b) of this section, the court may order
the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board of Agriculture may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society, or animal shelter or disposed of as the
custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 KEEPING VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. 
      VICIOUS ANIMAL:
         (a)   Any animal which bites multiple times or to the extent of
causing severe injury, assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic
animals;
         (b)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of fighting with animals.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is vicious if:
      (1)   The animal, including dogs, bites a human being or domestic animal
more than once in the same attack;
      (2)   The animal, including dogs, has bitten human beings or domestic
animals twice; or
      (3)   If the animal is a dog, the dog has been found to be a dangerous
dog within the meaning of this section, and the code of ordinances or any other
applicable rules, laws, and/or regulations pertaining to the regulation of
dangerous dogs has subsequently been violated by the same dangerous dog.
   (C)   Exceptions. An animal shall not be deemed vicious solely because:
      (1)   It bites, attacks, or menaces:
         (a)   Any person assaulting its owner;
         (b)   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it;
      (2)   Is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or other
animal upon itself, its owner or another person; or
      (3)   Any police canine unit in the performance of their duties.
   (D)   A dog shall be declared to be vicious by a court.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to knowingly keep,
possess, harbor, or house any vicious animal within the city.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit, allow, cause,
or facilitate, by act or omission, the entry into the city of any vicious
animal including vicious dog.
(Ord. 840.6, passed 9-14-87; Am. Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PROCEDURE FOR HAVING A DOG DECLARED VICIOUS.
   Any person wishing to declare a dog vicious shall file a complaint before
the district court, charging the owner or keeper of such dog with harboring a
vicious dog. A copy of such complaint shall be served upon the person so
charged in the same manner and subject to the laws regulating the service of
summons in civil actions directing him to appear for a hearing of such
complaint at a time fixed therein. If such person fails to appear at the time
fixed, or if upon a hearing of the parties and their witnesses, the court finds
the person so charged is the owner or keeper of the dog in question, and that
the dog has viciously and without cause, acted in a manner that is defined in §
90.07 herein, the dog shall be found to be vicious and the owner or keeper of
the dog in question shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
90.99 and the orders of the court.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   An Animal Control Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor to oversee the
enforcement of the provisions of the code that pertain to animals.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 ANIMALS AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or harborer to keep or to have
within the city an animal that habitually or repeatedly gets into garbage cans
or bags, or damages flowers, gardens, shrubs or conducts himself in any way as
to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 AGREEMENTS; ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council is empowered to authorize the entering into an approved
contract with other cities or counties in the enforcement of this chapter or,
in the alternative, may enter into an employment contract with either an
organization or an individual to enforce provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   No person owning or having in his custody any animal shall violate any laws,
rules, or regulations of the state applicable thereto. These state laws, rules,
and regulations are included herein by reference. When the provisions of the
state regulations are less restrictive than the provisions of this chapter, the
latter shall govern.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off of the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or someone acting in the owner's behalf, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property in a dog and every person who
keeps or harbors a dog, or has a dog in his care or permits a dog to remain on
or about premises owned or occupied by him.
(Ord. 840.4, passed 5-13-85)
§ 90.16 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTORY LICENSING.
   All dog owners within the city shall comply with all dog licensing
provisions contained in KRS Chapter 258.
(Ord. 840.4, passed 5-13-85) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit on his premises more than
three dogs to remain thereon provided, however, that this section excludes from
its application any dogs of an age of not more than three months.
(Ord. 840.3, passed 5-13-85) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 ACCUMULATION OF ODOR-CAUSING SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person permit the accumulation of any substance
or substances upon the premises owned, occupied, or under his control, which
causes a foul or obnoxious odor to be discharged into the air or water so as to
unreasonably disturb any other persons.
(Ord. 840.3, passed 5-13-85) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either
licensed or unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to
be at large and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden,
schoolyard, playground, or on any other public or private property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to allow a dog owned by him,
licensed or unlicensed, to run at large between the hours of sunset and sunrise
of any day. Any peace officer may destroy any dog found running at large
between the hours of sunset and sunrise. (Ord. 840.4, passed 5-13-85)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 IMPOUNDMENT OR DESTRUCTION OF DOGS IN VIOLATION.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound such dog or have
such dog impounded in the appropriate place. If a peace officer is unable to
seize such dog after diligent effort to do so, he shall destroy such dog by any
reasonable and humane means. Dogs seized under this section shall be impounded
for seven days and if not claimed by the owner, or sold in accordance with
state law, within that period, such dogs may be destroyed in a humane manner.
(Ord. 840.4, passed 5-13-85)
§ 90.22 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog impounded in accordance with §
90.21 may reclaim the dog upon the payment of all appropriate fees and after
fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.23 LIMITATIONS ON RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   Any dog impounded three times within a 12-month period by virtue of a
violation of any ordinance or state law shall not be returned to the owner and
shall either be adopted by a new owner, unrelated to the original owner and of
another household from the original owner, or shall be destroyed in a humane
manner, if not adopted within the given time from the animal shelter holding
said animal.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 LEASH REQUIRED.
   The owner or harborer of any dog, not on the owner or harborer's premises or
in motor vehicle, shall keep said dog on a leash on such length to keep the dog
from annoying others. A harmless dog may be unleashed if either of the
following is applicable:
   (A)    The dog is in training, a competition or show, or
   (B)    The dog is on the property with the permission of the property owner.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99 
§ 90.25 DOG EXCREMENT REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person shall allow a dog under his or her control to be upon public
property or upon the property of another, absent the consent of the owner or
occupant of the property, without some device for the removal and containment
of such dog's excrement; nor shall any person fail to remove any excrement
deposited by any dog under his or her control on public or private property.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 DOGS CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner or harborer to keep or to have within
the city a dog that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at, bites, or
attacks pedestrians, bicyclists, or vehicles; or gets into garbage cans or
bags; or damages flowers, gardens, or shrubs; or conducts himself in any way as
to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG:
         (a)   Any dog without provocation, that causes an individual to
reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical harm to a person;
         (b)   Any dog which when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner, any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places, or private property; or
         (c)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence that a dog is dangerous if:
      (1)   The dog has bitten any human or domestic animal and caused injury,
irrespective of the extent of the injury; or
      (2)   The dog has approached and/or chased a human being or domestic
animal in such a terrorizing manner as to reasonably require the human being or
domestic animal to seek immediate shelter or to require the human being or
domestic animal to defend oneself against such attack or to require an
intervening third party to stop the dog from approaching or chasing the human
being or domestic animal in such a terrorizing manner. It shall not matter
whether the human being or domestic animal sustains any physical injury.
   (C)   Exceptions. An animal shall not be deemed dangerous solely because:
      (1)   It bites, attacks, or menaces;
         (a)   Any person assaulting its owner;
         (b)   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it;
      (2)   Is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or other
animal upon itself, its owner or another person;
      (3)   Any police canine unit in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 PROCEDURE FOR HAVING ANIMAL CLASSIFIED DANGEROUS.
   Any person within the city who complains of an animal being dangerous may
submit a complaint in writing to the Animal Control Officer. The Animal Control
Officer shall see that the complaint is served upon the animal owner and/or the
property owner of where the alleged incident occurred. Service shall be made by
sheriff or by certified mail. Avoidance of service shall not bar enforcement of
this section. Lack of knowledge or intent is no defense. Within seven days of
filing the complaint the animal owner and/or property owner of where the
alleged incident occurred shall contest the allegations by responding to the
allegations in writing and returning the response to the Animal Control
Officer. The Animal Control Officer shall provide the complaining party with a
copy of the response. A hearing shall be held within 14 days of the response
before the Mayor. Upon review of all the evidence, the Mayor shall make a
determination as to whether the animal is dangerous. The decision shall be
final and the aggrieved party may appeal within ten days to the City Council
for reconsideration. Failure to contest the complaint shall deem the
allegations true and shall be prima facie evidence that the animal is
dangerous. Once an animal is determined to be a dangerous animal, the animal
shall always be classified as a dangerous animal and shall be subject to all
rules and regulations governing a dangerous animal, unless and until the animal
is found to be a vicious animal.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 DANGEROUS DOG TO BE PROPERLY CONFINED OR LEASHED.
   The owner or harborer of a dangerous dog shall:
   (A)   When the dog is indoors secure all means of egress so that the dog may
not exit;
   (B)   When the dog is outside and on the premises of the owner or harborer,
confined at all times in a roofed, securely fenced, and locked, barricade
designed so that the dog may not dig its way out. The barricade must be at
least six feet in height measuring from the ground with an attached top, and
posted with a sign stating dangerous dog by both symbol and words, and
constructed so that a child can not penetrate the barricade with his hand;
   (C)   When the dog is off the premises of the owner or harborer, muzzled and
securely restrained with a leash not exceeding five feet in length and under
the control of a competent adult. In the alternative said dangerous dog may be
confined in a locked crate which is constructed of material of sufficient
strength to prevent escape and posted with a sign stating dangerous dog by both
symbol and words, and constructed so that a child can not penetrate the
barricade with his hand;
   (D)   When the dog is in a vehicle or is being transported in an open truck
bed, or other conveyance, it shall be confined in a locked crate or cage which
is constructed of material of sufficient strength to prevent escape and posted
with a sign stating dangerous dog by both symbol and words, and constructed so
that a child can not penetrate the barricade with his hand.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 POSSESSION OF A DANGEROUS DOG LIMITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than one dangerous
dog, which is over the age of six months, at one time.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 DANGEROUS DOGS TO BE REGISTERED.
   The owner or harborer of a dangerous dog shall, within seven days of
possession, comply with divisions (A) and (B) of this section; and with all
other subsections as indicated herein.
   (A)   Have the dangerous dog tattooed on an inside thigh and have an
identifying micro chip inserted between the top of the dog's shoulder blades at
the withers, by an individual licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the
state. The tattoo shall be a number provided by the Police Department or the
Animal Control Officer.
   (B)   Provide the Police Department and the Animal Control Officer with:
      (1)   Documentation from the veterinarian describing the tattoo and micro
chip number;
      (2)   Current color photographs of the dog showing the front face, side
head, and whole body of the dog, and any other identifying characteristic such
as color marking or scars; and
      (3)   The name, address, and phone number of the owner or harborer.
   (C)   If the owner or harborer has registered a dangerous dog he/she shall
notify within 24 hours, the Police Department of a change of his address and/or
phone number;
   (D)   If the owner or harborer of a dangerous dog has sold, given away, or
if control of said dog has in any other manner been transferred for more than
48 consecutive hours, he shall notify the Police Department within 24 hours of
the name and address of the individual harboring the dog.
   (E)   Within 72 hours of taking possession of a dog registered under this
chapter, register the dog with the Police Department, if the dog is harbored in
the city.
   (F)   The owner or harborer of a dangerous dog shall immediately notify the
Police Department when the dog is loose or has attacked a person.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The owner or harborer of a dangerous dog, or in event the owner is a minor,
the owner's parent or guardian shall obtain and keep in force liability
insurance, in an amount of not less than $50,000, protecting against injury or
death caused by such dangerous dog. The owner or harborer, or in the event the
owner or harborer is a minor, the owner's or harborer's parent or guardian,
shall provide the Police Department with proof of the insurance required
herein.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 POSSESSION OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor any dangerous animal
within the city limits, other than a dangerous dog properly registered and
lawfully abiding by all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50, nor more than $250 for the first violation, and not less than $250 nor
more than $500 for each subsequent violation hereof. Each day of violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense. Each day the
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. (KRS 525.130)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500. Each day the
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. (KRS 436.600)
   (E)   Any person who violates §
90.07 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250, or incarceration for a
period not to exceed 30 days, or both. Each vicious animal kept within or
entering into the city in violation of §
90.07 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Any person violating §
90.11 shall be deemed guilty of a Class B Misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, for the first
violation, and shall be deemed guilty of a Class A Misdemeanor and fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than one year or both, for each
subsequent violation. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (G)   Any person violating §
90.12 shall be deemed guilty of a Class B Misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, for the first
violation, and shall be deemed guilty of a Class A Misdemeanor and fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than one year or both, for each
subsequent violation. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (H)   The Animal Control Officer may impound the dog pursuant to §
90.21, or in the alternative, may issue an administrative fine ticket to the
owner for harboring a dog unlicensed by the City or the state or for permitting
the dog to be at large. In that event, the ticket shall bear a civil penalty of
$50, and upon failure to pay the penalty within 15 days, the Animal Control
Officer may cause to be issued a criminal complaint in the Gallatin District
Court for a violation of this chapter. Each day the violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (I)   Any person violates §
90.25 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined $100. Each day
of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (J)   Any person violating §
90.26 shall be deemed guilty of a Class B Misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, for the first
violation, and shall be deemed guilty of a Class A Misdemeanor and fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than one year or both, for each
subsequent violation. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (K)   Any person violating §
90.29 shall be deemed guilty of a Class B Misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, for the first
violation, and shall be deemed guilty of a Class A Misdemeanor and fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than one year or both, for each
subsequent violation. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense. Each dangerous animal for which the violation exists shall be
considered a separate violation.
   (L)   Any person violating §
90.31 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $250. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (M)   Violations classified as civil offenses. Any violation of a provision
of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense pursuant to KRS 65.8808
and §§
39.01 et seq., and such classification is intended, and shall be construed, to
provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining compliance with this
chapter, and nothing contained herein, or in §§
39.01 et seq., shall prohibit the enforcement of the animals and dogs
ordinances by any other means authorized by law, specifically, without
limitation, the provisions of §§
90.08,
90.09,
90.11,
90.12,
90.21,
90.22,
90.23,
90.28 and
90.99.
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $10 to $100 for the first offense, $30 to $300 for the second
offense, and $90 to $900 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
      (2)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at
the discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense;
from $60 to $600 for the second offense; and from $180 to $1,800 for the third,
and thereafter, offense.
      (3)   Each section of this chapter violated shall be considered a
separate fineable offense. If two or more sections of this chapter are
violated, the fines shall be cumulative and may be enforced under the same
citation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense
without issuance of a separate citation.
(Ord. 840.6, passed 9-14-87; Am. Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02; Am. Ord. 2006-
0011, passed 11-13-06)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person owning lots or real estate
fronting or abutting on any sidewalk in the city to maintain, at his own
expense and in suitable state of repair, the sidewalk and the right-of-way,
including trees and natural growth, so far as it fronts or abuts upon his lot
or real estate.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor or Building Inspector to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. Specifications are to be
prepared by the land owner for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Mayor, Building Inspector or
the legislative body for approval.
   (C)   Every property owner shall repair all holes, uneven surfaces and other
defects in the sidewalk, and he shall reconstruct or replace all or any part of
the sidewalk that is not capable of ordinary restoration or repair. The
material used for repair, replacement or reconstruction shall be of similar
grade and texture as that used in the construction of the sidewalk.
   (D)   The construction or maintenance of planks, culverts or other crossings
over the gutter of any public street in the city is prohibited. All persons
desiring to drive from any street of the city to private property shall
construct and maintain the crossing in such a manner as to leave the gutter
open and unobstructed.
   (E)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete, shall be at least four
inches thick, and shall be at least four feet wide. Sidewalks shall be up to
five feet wide along arterial or collector streets and roads, and along multi-
family developments. Steel reinforcing, and expansion and contraction joints
shall be installed during construction according to industry standards. The
base for the sidewalks shall be compacted to eliminate settlement, and the
disturbed area shall be backfilled, regraded to provide drainage, and shall be
restored to provide vegetation. New or replacement sidewalks shall be matched
to the width of existing sidewalks to be abutted. In order to enable persons
using wheelchairs to travel freely and without assistance, at each crosswalk a
ramp with nonslip surface shall be built into the curb so that the sidewalk and
street blend to a common level. Such ramp shall not be less than 32 inches wide
and shall not have a slope greater than one inch rise per 12 inches length,
where practicable. In all ramps there shall be a gradual rounding at the bottom
of the slope.
(Ord. 1993-91.06-1, passed 6-14-93; Am. Ord. 2001-0006, passed 8-13-01)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge
matters within the city. Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public
hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100 (6),(7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
Unsafe Structures and Unsafe Conditions
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Unsafe structures
   
92.17   Responsibility of occupants and owners
   
92.18   Renting unfit or unsafe structure
   
92.17   Nuisances
   
92.18   Permitting, occupying, and closing unsafe and unfit structures
   
92.19   Irreparable condition
   
92.20   Complaints and investigation
   
92.21   Condemnation notice and order
   
92.22   Enforcement of notice and order
   
92.23   Variances
   
92.24   Alternative legal actions
   
92.25   Penalties
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisance, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW.  A sight line within normal visual range by a person
on a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city, whether occupied, vacant, or abandoned,
to permit a public nuisance to develop thereon. The following conditions are
declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
      (1)   The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way
interferes with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks,
causes injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to
drainage.
      (2)   All property between the roadway and the sidewalks shall, for the
purpose of this section, be deemed to be property to be maintained by the
property owner whose property abuts on the opposite side of the sidewalks or
passways.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 7-10-78)
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) it shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the city to
permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon
through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(1) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines,
or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of
a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether as a
hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.011 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful in the city for the owner of a property to permit
any structure upon the property to become unfit and unsafe for human
habitation, occupancy, or use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of
the city, county, consolidated local government, or urban-county.
   (D)   The city may establish by ordinance reasonable standards and
procedures for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply
with all applicable statutes, administrative regulations, or codes. Proper
notice shall be given to property owners before any action is taken pursuant to
this section; and, prior to the demolition of any unfit or unsafe structure,
the right to a hearing shall be afforded the property owner.
   (E)   (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the
reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance
situation. The affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
of this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
      (2)   The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city
thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
subsequent liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may
be enforced by judicial proceeding.
      (3)   In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized by law,
the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this
section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all
interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
   (F)   The provisions of subsections (D) and (E) shall not apply to an owner,
occupant, or person having control or management of any land located in an
unincorporated area if the owner, occupant, or person is not the generator of
the rubbish or is not dumping or knowingly allowing the dumping of the rubbish
and has made reasonable efforts to prevent the dumping of rubbish by other
persons onto the property.
(Ord. 2002-0006, passed 8-12-02)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, the City Commission may suspend the license of the person
or persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND UNSAFE CONDITIONS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms whenever used or referred to in this section of this
chapter shall have the following respective meanings unless a different meaning
clearly appears from the context:
   BUILDING. Any combination of materials, whether portable or fixed, which
comprises a structure affording facilities or shelter for any human occupancy,
whether infrequent or regular, including all dwellings and nonresidential
buildings. The word BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the words “or
part or parts thereof and all equipment and contents therein” unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DEMOLISH. To destroy a building and to remove all debris and waste materials
from the lot on which the building stood.
   DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof used and occupied for human
habitation or intended to be so used and including any garages or other
accessory buildings belonging thereto.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with the facilities that are used or intended
to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
   EXTERMINATE. The control and elimination of vermin and other pests by
eliminating their harboring places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, and by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by other legal methods.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used, or intended to be used,
for living, sleeping, cooling, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors,
closets, or storage spaces.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OWNER. Any holder of any legal or equitable title in the subject premises,
whether alone or jointly with others.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individual, associates, and corporations who have a
mortgage or other interest of record in a structure or who are in possession
thereof.
   POTABLE WATER. Water approved by public health authorities as safe for
drinking.
   PUBLIC RECORD. Deeds, mortgages, and other instruments of record relating to
land titles.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or occupant to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
grandson or granddaughter, grandmother or grandfather, sister or brother of the
occupant.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. All waste materials except garbage.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or gutters, except repair or replacement
of supporting members.
   STRUCTURE. Any man-made combination of materials, including but not limited
to, buildings, dwellings, stadiums, reviewing stands, platforms, stagings,
observation towers, swimming pools above and below grad, radio towers, water
tanks and towers, trestles, piers, wharves, sheds, coal bins, shelters, display
signs, retaining walls, fences, and excavations. The term STRUCTURE shall be
construed as if followed by the works “or part or parts thereof and all
equipment and contents therein” unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
   UTILITY PROVIDER. Any municipal or private utility supplying water,
electricity, or natural gas.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.16 UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   The following conditions are hereby determined to be hazardous and shall
warrant a finding that a structure or its premises is unsafe:
   (A)   Structural hazards.
      (1)   Any structure whose walls or vertical members list, lean, or buckle
to such an extent that a plumb line suspended from the top edge of such member
shall fall outside of a distance from the edge equal to one-third of the
thickness of such members;
      (2)   Any structure that has a support member or members that have
deteriorated to such an extent as to be unable to safely support the applied
loads or that have 40% damage or deterioration of the nonsupporting, enclosed,
or outside walls or covering;
      (3)   Any structure that has improperly distributed loads upon the floors
or roofs or in which the same are overloaded or that have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   A stress in any materials, element, or member of any structure, or
portion thereof, due to all dead and live loads, which is greater than the
working stresses allowed by the Kentucky Building Code or Fire Safety
Standards;
      (5)   Any structure that has been damaged by fire, wind, earthquake,
flood, or other causes in such a manner that the structural stability or
strength thereof is appreciable less than the minimum requirements set forth by
the Kentucky Building code for new construction of a similar structure;
      (6)   Any structure that has parts thereof so attached, dislodged, or
detached that they may fall or collapse and injure persons or property;
      (7)   Any structure that has settled to such an extent that the walls or
other structural portions thereof have been displaced or distorted and rendered
structurally unstable or dangerous, or that the basic function of such element
has been impaired;
      (8)   Any structure that because of dilapidation, deteriorations, decay,
faulty construction, or the removal or movement of some portion of the ground
necessary for its supports, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or
some portion of its foundation or underpinning is likely to fall or give way;
      (9)   Any structure, exclusive of its foundation, showing damage or
deterioration to 33% or more of its members, or 50% or more of its
nonsupporting enclosing or outside wall or covering;
      (10)   Any structure that is for any reason whatsoever manifestly unsafe
for the purpose for which it is used or intended to be used;
      (11)   Any structure that has been so damaged by fire, wind, earthquake,
flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated from any cause whatsoever,
as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might play therein, or as
to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals, disorderly persons, or others who
are not lawful occupants of such structure, or as to enable persons to resort
hereto for the propose of committing a nuisance or unlawful or immoral acts.
      (12)   Any structure that when constructed was, and now exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition under city
building ordinances or other laws in effect at the time of such construction
relating to the location, use, and physical condition of structures;
      (13)   Any structure that, whether or not originally erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, because of dilapidation,
deterioration, damage, or other cause, has become so weakened or defective as
to have in any nonsupporting part, member, or portion, less that 50%, or in any
supporting member less that 66%, of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics required by law or ordinance in the case of new construction of
a similar structure;
      (14)   Any structure that because of faulty construction, age lack of
proper repair, or other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes,
contains, or creates a fire hazard;
      (15)   Any structure that for any reason whatsoever is dangerous to the
public health or safety because of its condition, and that may cause or aid in
the spreading of disease or injury to the health or the occupants of it or
neighboring structures;
   (B)   Faulty weather protection.
      (1)   Any structure that has deteriorated, crumbling, or loose plaster;
      (2)   Any structure that has deteriorated or ineffective water proofing
of exterior walls, roofs, foundations, or floors, including broken windows or
doors;
      (3)   Any structure that has defective or ineffective weather protection
for exterior wall coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack
of paint or other approved protective covering;
      (4)   Any structure that has broken, rotted, split, or buckled exterior
walls or roof covering.
   (C)   Hazardous or unsanitary premises. Any premises in which there is an
accumulation of weeds, vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris, garbage,
refuse, vermin harborages, stagnant water, combustible materials, or similar
materials, or conditions constituting fire, health, or safety hazards.
   (D)   Refuse and pests.
      (1)   Any structure that does not have adequate rubbish storage
facilities and garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers;
      (2)   Any structure in which there has been accumulated extraordinary
garbage, rubbish, and refuse, or in which there is an infestation of vermin or
other pests, or other unsanitary conditions, any of which are hazardous to
health; or
   (E)   Miscellaneous substandard and hazardous conditions. Any structure in
which exist other conditions dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or
morals of the occupants thereof, or of the occupants or owners of neighboring
structure, or of other residents of the city, including but not limited to any
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or other calamities; lack of
adequate light, ventilation, or sanitary facilities; dilapidation; disrepair,
structural defects, and uncleanliness.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.17 RESPONSIBILITY OF OCCUPANTS AND OWNERS.
   (A)   The responsibilities of the occupants are as follows:
      (1)   To keep the portion of the structure and premises he controls and
occupies in a clean and sanitary condition;
      (2)   To dispose of rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner as
prescribed by city ordinances;
      (3)   To keep plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and to exercise reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof; and
      (4)   To exterminate in the following cases:
         (a)   The occupant of a single dwelling is responsible for
extermination of any insects, vermin, or other pests therein or on premises.
         (b)   The occupant of a single dwelling unit in a multiple unit
structure is responsible for extermination of any insects, vermin, or other
pests if his unit is the only unit infested.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section,
whenever infestation is caused by the failure of the owner to maintain the
dwelling in a vermin-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, the occupant
is not responsible for extermination of any insects, vermin, or other pests
therein.
   (B)   The responsibilities of the owner are as follows:
      (1)   To have the structure and premises in a safe, clean, sanitary,
habitable condition, free from infestation by insects, vermin, and other pests
before renting, and to exterminate if necessary;
      (2)   To exterminate in the following cases:
         (a)   When infestation exists in two or more units of a multiple unit
structure;
         (b)   When infestation exists in shared or public areas of a multiple
unit structure; and
         (c)   When infestation exists in a single unit of a multiple unit
structure or in a single unit structure when infestation is due to failure of
the owner to maintain the dwelling in a vermin proof and reasonable insect
proof condition.
      (3)   To perform the responsibilities of the occupant when the premises
are vacant.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96) Penalty, see 92.99
§ 92.18 RENTING UNFIT OR UNSAFE STRUCTURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any party in interest of a structure
to rent or offer for rent any such structure that is unfit for human
gravitation for any reason set out in 276.03 due to dilapidation, leaking water
lines, leaking gas lines, electrical defects increasing hazards of fire,
accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities, or due to other conditions rendering such structure unsafe or
unsanitary.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.19 NUISANCES.
   Any structure that is unsafe or unfit for human habitation as hereinbefore
defined is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be repaired,
rebuilt, or demolished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.20 PERMITTING, OCCUPYING, AND CLOSING UNSAFE AND UNFIT STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe or
unfit structures or premises in the city. It shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, or person in custody of any unsafe or unfit structure or premises to
permit the same to remain in an unsafe or unfit condition, or to occupy or
permit the occupancy of such structures or premises after the time to appeal
any adverse notice or order from the Codes Enforcement Office. Vacating and
closing structures or premises that are unsafe or unfit due to dangerous or
unsanitary conditions shall not exonerate the owner without rendering the same
safe and sanitary to neighbors and the general public.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.21 IRREPARABLE CONDITION.
   Any structure within the city that shall have been damaged by fire, decay,
or other causes to the extent that it would reasonable cost at least 50% of its
fair market value to restore it to a condition that is safe and fit for human
habitation shall be deemed to be irreparable and shall be demolished, or at the
option of the owner shall be rebuilt to standards for new construction under
the Kentucky Building Code and Fire Safety Standards.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
  § 92.22 COMPLAINTS AND INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever a complaint is filed with the Codes Enforcement Officer by a public
officer or authority or by at least five residents of the city charging that
any structure or premises is unsafe or is unfit for human habitation or that
there is any other violation of this subchapter, or whenever the Codes
Enforcement Officer from his personal observations suspects any violation or
structure or premises is unsafe or unfit, he shall investigate such complaint
or suspicion, and shall inspect such structures or premises where he has reason
to believe violations of this chapter or of any other applicable code,
ordinance, or statute exist.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.23 CONDEMNATION NOTICE AND ORDER.
   If the Codes Enforcement Officer determines in his opinion that such
structure or premises is unsafe or unfit, or that there is any other violation
of this chapter, he shall serve all owners, adult occupants, parties in
interest, and utility providers written notice thereof in the form of a notice
with an order of appropriate remedial action. The notice and order shall be
styled “Notice and Order of Condemnation,” shall be signed and dated by the
Codes Enforcement Officer, and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The names and addresses if known of all owners, adult occupants, and
parties in interest of such structure or premises;
   (B)   The location of such structure or premises;
   (C)   A statement in substance that the structure or premises has been
condemned as a nuisance by the Codes Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   A detailed summary of the reasons for condemnation;
   (E)   A detailed summary of actions necessary to remedy the conditions
making the premises or structure unfit or unsafe, with an express order
directed to the owner to effect such remedial actions;
   (F)   A statement, if reasonably believed by the Codes Enforcement Officer,
that the structure is irreparable because repair costs are estimated to exceed
50% of its value.
   (G)   Reasonable times allowed for the following actions:
      (1)   Vacating and closing or otherwise securing the structure or
premises, if believed reasonably necessary by the Codes Enforcement Officer;
      (2)   Commencement and completion of the remedial actions;
      (3)   Commencement and completion of demolition, if the owner elects not
to effect the remedial actions;
      (4)   Filing an appeal from the notice and order of condemnation;
   (H)   A statement in substance that failure to comply or appeal will result
in such remedial action or demolition by the Codes Enforcement Officer and in
his filing a lien in favor of the city for the cost so incurred against the
real property upon which such violation exists.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.24 ENFORCEMENT OF NOTICE AND ORDER.
   If no such remedial action, demolition, or appeal shall be timely
undertaken, the Codes Enforcement Officer may cause the structure or premises
in violation to be:
   (A)   Wholly or partially so remedied; or
   (B)   Demolished, if the structure is irreparable as defined in 276.10
above;
   (C)   Vacated and closed or otherwise secured; and
   (D)   Posted as being unfit or unsafe and condemned, and prohibiting
occupancy.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.25 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of conditions peculiar to a particular structure, it would be
unreasonably difficult to satisfy the literal requirements of this chapter, a
variance may be granted by the Codes Enforcement Office upon written
application thereof, or by the board upon appeal. Such application shall state
in writing the reasons why the variance should be made. A variance may be
granted only where is shall be evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is
assured, may include conditions not generally specified by this subchapter in
order to achieve that end, and may include an expiration date. Variance shall
not become effective until all conditions are agreed to by the applicant.
Copies of all variances shall be recorded with the Gallatin County Clerk, filed
with the Codes Enforcement Officer, and served to the applicant, If not issued
within 30 days after a written application therefor is made to the Codes
Enforcement Officer, the applicant shall be given a written statement of
reasons why the variance cannot be granted, provide that no application shall
be considered after a structure shall have been condemned as unsafe or unfit
unless the owner shall have made a reasonable attempt to effect the ordered
remedies.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.26 ALTERNATIVE LEGAL ACTIONS.
   The City Attorney may, upon his own motion or upon request of the Codes
Enforcement Officer institute appropriate action to restrain, enjoin, abate,
remove, or otherwise, correct any violation of this chapter, and to take such
other legal action as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the terms
and intent of this chapter. The legal remedies provided for in this chapter
shall be cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other
remedied provided by law. Any and all legal remedies may be pursued
concurrently or consecutively, and the pursuit of any legal remedy shall not be
construed as a waiver of the right to pursue any other legal remedy.
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.27 PENALTIES.
   For penalties of any section under § 92.07, see §
92.99
(Ord. 1996-010, passed 10-14-96)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Violations classified as civil offenses. Any violation of a provision
of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense pursuant to KRS 65.8808
and Ordinance 2004-0005, and such classification is intended, and shall be
construed, to provide an additional or supplemental means of obtaining
compliance with this chapter, and nothing contained herein, or in Ordinance
2004-0005, shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law, specifically, without limitation, the provisions of §§
92.04,
92.06,
92.22,
92.23,
92.24,
92.26 or
92.99.
   (C)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $10 to $100 for the first offense, $30 to $300 for the second
offense, and $90 to $900 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (D)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense; from
$60 to $600 for the second offense; and from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (E)   Each section of this chapter violated shall be considered a separate
fineable offense. If two or more sections of this chapter are violated, the
fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense without issuance of a
separate citation.
(Ord. 2004-0008, passed 1-10-05)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display with a permit and
for consumer fireworks around the Fourth of July
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dumping or burning garbage, see §
50.09
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in KRS 227.700, 227.702, 227.704 and 227.706 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if fully set forth
herein.
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY WITH A PERMIT AND
FOR CONSUMER FIREWORKS AROUND THE FOURTH OF JULY.
   (A)   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or
explode, any display fireworks, except as provided herein:
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official
may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A)(1) shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent
display operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This
competent display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as
signed by the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this
section, on site and at all times the display is in place, and shall be
presented on demand of the state fire marshal or local fire chief. All public
displays that require issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code
for Fireworks Display (adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the office
of the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days in advance of the date of the
display. After the privilege is granted, sales, possession, use and
distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose
only. No permit granted under this division shall be transferable. For the
purpose of this section, “public display of fireworks” shall include the use of
pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience,
whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining within the display area shall
be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an
assistant in training to become a competent display operator. All persons
remaining within the display area shall be at least 18 years of age. The
Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction with
recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate administrative
regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the provisions of
this division. The regulations shall  address the process by which permits are
issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to effectuate
this subsection.
      (2) The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
      (3) The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.
      (4) The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
      (5) The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
      (6) The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
      (7) The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
      (8) The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
(KRS 227.710)
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be contained to prohibit consumer
fireworks, as defined in KRS 227.702.
      (1)   Consumer fireworks, as defined in KRS 227.702, may lawfully be used
to explode, fire, shoot, or set off within the city limits July 1 through 5
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. only; except on July 4 when the
allowable times shall be expanded to noon thru 11:00 pm. Such consumer
fireworks may only be used by individuals at least 18 years of age, or under
the supervision of a parent or guardian, and shall not be ignited within 200
feet of any structure, vehicle or any other person. Fireworks, including
consumer fireworks, shall not be ignited or discharged from a motor vehicle and
shall not be ignited or discharged on public property or property of another
without the consent of the owner or occupant.   
      (2)   Other than these dates and times, it is unlawful to explode, fire,
shoot, or set off fireworks inside the corporate limits of the city without a
permit issued by the city.
(Am. Ord. 2017-04, passed 11-13-17)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in § 93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01 may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell,
only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks as described in § 93.01 shall register annually with
the State Fire Marshal in accordance with KRS 227.715, and display its
registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01 to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715 (1), (6) - (8)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall restrict a local government from
enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   City policy
   
95.03   Application of regulations
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
95.07   Exemption
   
95.08   Administration
   
95.09   Education and conciliation
   
95.10   Enforcement
   
95.11   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
95.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
95.13   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
95.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04,
95.05, or
95.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
§ 95.02 CITY POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
§ 95.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
95.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by
division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that:
         (a)   Such private individual owner does not own more than three such
single-family houses at any one time;
         (b)   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this division shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any 24-month period;
         (c)   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time;
         (d)   That the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or the
sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman, or of
such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman, or
person and without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as principal
in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or
any interest therein; or
      (2)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03, and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and
95.07, it shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, or national
origin.
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, or
national origin.
   (C)   Make print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published any
notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, or national
origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or rental when
such dwelling is in fact so available.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, or national origin of such
person or of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or
other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given. Nothing contained in this section
shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
95.03(B).
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions
of such access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, or national origin.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club, not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
§ 95.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other
officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself, as shall be
appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner which will
further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief
Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
§ 95.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to establish programs of voluntary compliance and
enforcement.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
§ 95.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends to resolve it. If
the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints, he shall proceed
to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by
informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or
done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as
evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written
consent of the persons concerned. No employee of the Chief Executive Officer
shall make public any information in violation of this provision.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegation of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
The Chief Executive Officer shall first comply with the provisions of the
Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Chief
Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to compel access to or the production of
such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The Chief Executive
Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Executive Officer himself.
Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their face the
name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were issued at
his request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent, shall be paid by him.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he finds that
the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or
place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any
matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the state court for the district in which the person to
whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts business.
   (F)   No person shall willfully fail or neglect to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
Chief Executive Officer. No person shall, with intent thereby to mislead the
Chief Executive Officer, make or cause to be made any false entry or statement
of fact in any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the
Chief Executive Officer pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or willfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and correct entries in
such reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or willfully mutilate,
alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence.
   (G)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
95.03 through
95.06 may be enforced by civil actions in the appropriate state court. A civil
action shall be commenced within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory
housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the court shall continue
such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
95.10(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial, if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court. Any sale, encumbrance, or
rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the
authority of this ordinance, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer,
or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint
or civil action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume the attorney's fees.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
§ 95.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
95.03 through
95.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   No person shall, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, or national origin
and because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing,
occupying, or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental,
financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described in division (A) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion, or
national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech
or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than
one year, or both.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
95.14 shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than
$10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results
shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-11-88)
CHAPTER 96: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Abandonment prohibited
   
96.03   Inoperable vehicles
   
96.04   Impoundment
   
96.05   Exception for antique vehicles
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is at least 25 years old.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 2-13-89)
§ 96.02 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave any vehicle, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, boats, trailers, or campers at any place within the city
fur such time and under the circumstances indicating an abandonment. A vehicle
left upon a street or highway for seven consecutive days shall be presumed to
be abandoned.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 2-13-89) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked,
or junked vehicle, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, boats,
trailers, or campers on any street or highway, or within the city.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any
partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle,
including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, boats, trailers, or
campers, to remain on the property longer than seven days: and no person shall
leave any such vehicle, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks,
boats, trailers, or campers on any property within the city for a longer time
than seven days.
   (C)   Division (B) above shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an
enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated
in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the operation of the business
enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintain
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 2-13-89) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any member of the Police Department is hereby authorized to remove or have
removed any vehicle left at any place within the city which reasonably appears
to be in violation of this section or lot, stolen or unclaimed. The vehicle
shall be impounded until lawfully claimed after payment of reasonably storage
fees or disposed of by city under law. Any vehicle abandoned on the street or
highway shall be removed and disposed of in conformity with KRS Chapter 189.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 2-13-89)
§ 96.05 EXCEPTION FOR ANTIQUE VEHICLES.
   This chapter does not apply to an antique motor vehicle as defined in §
96.01.
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100 or imprisoned for not less than ten days nor more
than 30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day a violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 1989-2, passed 2-13-89)
CHAPTER 97: CRAIG’S CREEK BOAT RAMP
Section
   
97.01   Conditions of use
   
97.02   Conditions to run with the land
97.01 CONDITIONS OF USE
   The City of Warsaw Code of Ordinances is hereby amended by incorporating
therein the following 15 conditions which pertain to the use and operation of
the Creek Boat Ramp, the land, and related facilities, and which are contained
in the quit claim deed from the United States of America to the City of Warsaw
pertaining to a certain tract of land containing the Craig's Creek Boat Ramp
and related facilities, which deed is recorded at Deed Book 107, page 685 of
the Gallatin County Clerk's records:
   (A)   The property shall be used and maintained for the public purposes for
which it was conveyed in perpetuity as set forth in the Program of Utilization
and plan contained in the application, submitted by the grantee on March 17,
2009, which program and plan may be amended from time to time at the request of
either the grantor or grantee, with the written concurrence of the other party,
and such amendments shall be added to and become a part of the original
application.
   (B)   The grantee shall, within six months of the date of this Deed, erect
and maintain a permanent sign or marker near the point of principal access to
the property which says:
      This park land was acquired through the FEDERAL LANDS TO PARKS PROGRAM of
the United States Department of the Interior, National Park Service, for the
public's recreational use and enjoyment.
   (C)   The property shall not be sold, leased, assigned, or otherwise
disposed of except to another eligible governmental agency that the Secretary
of the Interior agrees in writing can assure the continued use and maintenance
of the property for public park or public recreational purposes subject to the
same terms and conditions in the original instrument of conveyance. Any
mortgage, lien, or any other encumbrance not wholly subordinate to the reverter
interest of the grantor shall constitute an impermissible disposal. However,
this provision shall not preclude the grantee and its successors or assigns
from issuing revenue or other bonds related to the use of the property to the
extent that such bond shall not in any way restrict, encumber, or constitute a
lien on the property. Further, nothing in this provision shall preclude the
grantee from providing related recreational facilities and services compatible
with the approved application, through concession agreements entered into with
third parties, provided prior concurrence to such agreements is obtained in
writing from the Secretary of the Interior.
   (D)   From the date of this deed, the grantee, its successors and assigns,
shall submit biennial reports to the Secretary of the Interior, setting forth
the use made of the property during the preceding two-year period, and other
pertinent data establishing its continuous use for the purposes set forth
above, for ten consecutive reports and as further determined by the Secretary
of the Interior.
   (E)   All revenue received by the grantee through concession agreements, use
permits, or other fees generated by activities on the property shall be used
only for the implementation of an approved program of utilization or the
operation of park and recreation facilities and programs on the property. After
the program of utilization is completed, and as long as the property is
properly and sufficiently operated and maintained, the revenue may be used for
other public park and recreational purposes by the grantee. Any revenue
received by the grantee which is generated on or by the operation of the
property shall not be used for non-recreational purposes. Any revenue received
by the grantee which is generated through the operation of the property shall
be listed and accounted for in its biennial reports to the National Park
Service.
   (F)   The grantor, and any representative it may so delegate, shall have the
right of entry upon said property at any time to conduct inspections of the
property for the purpose of evaluating the grantee's compliance with the terms
and conditions of this deed.
   (G)   As part of the consideration for the deed, the grantee covenants and
agrees for itself, its successors and assigns, that (1) the program for or in
connection with which this deed is made will be conducted in compliance with,
and the grantee, its successors and assigns, will comply with all requirements
imposed by or pursuant to the regulations of the Department of the Interior in
effect on the date of this Deed (43 C.F.R. Part 17) issued under the provisions
of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1); (2) this
covenant shall be subject in all respects to the provisions of said
regulations; (3) the grantee, its successors and assigns, will promptly take
and continue to take such action as may be necessary to effectuate this
covenant; (4) the United States shall have the right to seek judicial
enforcement of this covenant, and (5) the grantee, its successors and assigns,
will (a) obtain from each other person (any legal entity) who, through
contractual or other arrangements with the grantee, its successors and assigns,
is authorized to provide services or benefits under said program, a written
agreement pursuant to which such other person shall, with respect to the
services or benefits which he or she is authorized to provide, undertake for
himself or herself the same obligations as those imposed upon the grantee, its
successors and assigns, by this covenant, and (b) furnish a copy of such
agreement to the Secretary of the Interior, or his or her successor; and that
this covenant shall run with the land hereby conveyed, and shall in any event,
without regard to technical classification or designation, legal or otherwise,
be binding to the fullest extent permitted by law and equity for the benefit
of, and in favor of the grantor and enforceable by the grantor against the
grantee, its successors and assigns.
   (H)   The grantee, and each of its successors and assigns, agrees to comply
with the requirements of Public Law 90-480 (82 Stat. 718), the Architectural
Barriers Act of 1968, as amended by Public Law 91-205 of 1970 (84 Stat. 49),
and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 337) to assure that
development of facilities on the property are accessible to the physically
handicapped; and, further assure in accordance with Public Law 93-112, the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (87 Stat. 394), that no otherwise qualified
handicapped individual shall solely by reasons of his or her handicap be
excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity at the property receiving Federal
financial assistance.
   (I)   The grantee shall be on the lookout for archeological artifacts during
any construction activities and shall take appropriate action should any
artifacts be discovered. grantee shall comply with the provisions of 36 C.F.R.
Part 800, regarding protection of historic and cultural properties. grantee's
development plans shall avoid sites identified by a cultural resources
assessment of the property, and, prior to any alteration or construction on the
property, grantee shall consult with the Kentucky State Historic Preservation
Office.
   (J)   The grantee acknowledges that the property lies within the 100-year
flood plain and a portion of the property is in the floodway. The grantee
covenants and agrees to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969, as amended, the 1977 Amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (Clean Water Act of 1977), the Federal Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (87
Stat. 975), Executive Order 11288, relating to the evaluation of flood hazards,
Executive Order 11990 (May 24, 1977) for Protection of Wetlands and Executive
Order 11988 (May 24, 1977) for Floodplain Management and the Endangered Species
Act of 1973, where and to the extent said Amendments and Orders are applicable
to the property, and grantee shall be subject to any use restrictions issued
under the amendments and orders.
   (K)   The grantee covenants for itself, its successors and assigns, and
every successor in interest to the property herein described, or any part
thereof, that any construction or alteration is prohibited unless a
determination of no hazard to air navigation is issued by the Federal Aviation
Administration in accordance with Title 14, Code of Federal Regulation, Part
77, entitled "Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace", or under authority of the
Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended.
   (L)   The grantee, by acceptance of the deed, acknowledges that it has
received the following notice of hazardous substance activity and reservation
of access by the grantor concerning the property. Each of these statements is
given by the grantor in compliance with § 120(h)(3) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended
(CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. § 9620(h)(3):
      (1)   CERCLA covenant pursuant to § 120(h)(4)(D)(I) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended
(CERCLA)(42 U.S.C. § 9620(h)(4)(D)(i), the United States warrants that any
response action or corrective action found to be necessary after the date of
the deed for hazardous substances existing on the property prior to the date of
this deed shall be conducted by the United States. This warranty shall not
apply in any case in which the person or entity to whom the property is
transferred is a potentially responsible party with respect to the property.
For purposes of this warranty, grantee shall not be considered a potentially
responsible party solely due to a hazardous substance remaining on the property
on the date of this instrument, provided that grantee has not caused or
contributed to a release of such hazardous substance or petroleum product or
its derivatives.
      (2)   Right of access.
         (a)   Pursuant to § 120(h)(4)(D)(ii) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended
(CERCLA)(42 U.S.C. § 9620(h)(4)(D)(ii), the United States retains and reserves
a perpetual and assignable easement and right of access on, over, and through
the property, to enter upon the property in any case in which an environmental
response action or corrective action is found to be necessary on the part of
the United States, without regard to whether such environmental response action
or corrective action is on the property or on adjoining or nearby lands. Such
easement and right of access includes, without limitation, the right to perform
any environmental investigation, survey, monitoring, sampling, testing,
drilling, boring, coring, test-pitting, installing monitoring or pumping wells
or other treatment facilities, response action, corrective action, or any other
action necessary for the United States to meet its responsibilities under
applicable laws and as provided for in this instrument. Such easement and right
of access shall be binding on the grantee, its successors and assigns, and
shall run with the land.
         (b)   In exercising such easement and right of access, the United
States shall provide the grantee or its successors or assigns, as the case may
be, with reasonable notice of its intent to enter upon the property and
exercise its rights under this covenant, which notice may be severely curtailed
or even eliminated in emergency situation. The United States shall use
reasonable means, but without significant costs to the United States to avoid
and to minimize interference with the grantee's and the grantee's successors'
and assigns' quiet enjoyment of the property. Such easement and right of access
includes the right to obtain and use utility services, including water, gas,
electricity, sewer, and communications services available on the property at a
reasonable charge to the United States. Excluding the reasonable charges for
such utility services, no fee, charge or compensation will be due the grantee
nor its successors and assigns, for the exercise of the easement and right of
access hereby retained and reserved by the United States.
         (c)   In exercising such easement and right of access, neither the
grantee nor its successors and assigns, as the case may be, shall have any
claim at law or equity against the United States or any officer, employee,
agent, contractor of any tier, or servant of the United States based on actions
taken by the United States or its officers, employees, agents, contractors of
any tier, or servants pursuant to and in accordance with this covenant. In
addition, the grantee, its successors and assigns, shall not interfere with any
response action or corrective action conducted by the grantor on the property.
      (3)   "AS IS".
         (a)   The grantee acknowledges that it has inspected or has had the
opportunity to inspect the property and accepts the condition and state of
repair of the property. The grantee understands and agrees that the property
and any part thereof is offered "as is" without any representation, warranty,
or guarantee by the grantor as to quantity, title, character, conditions, size,
or kind, or that the same is in condition or fit to be used for the purpose(s)
intended by the grantee, and no claim for allowance or deduction upon such
grounds will be considered.
         (b)   No warranties, either express or implied are given with regard
to the condition of the property, including, without limitation, whether the
property does or does not contain asbestos or lead- based paint. The grantee
shall be deemed to have relied solely on its own judgment in assessing the
overall condition of all or any portion of the property, including, without
limitation, any asbestos, lead-based paint of other conditions on the property.
The failure of the grantee to inspect or to exercise due diligence to be fully
informed as to the condition of all or any portion of the property offered,
will not constitute grounds for any claim or demand against the United States.
         (c)   Nothing in this "as is" provision will be construed to modify or
negate the grantor's obligation under the CERCLA covenant or any other
statutory obligations.
      (4)   Hold harmless.
         (a)   To the extent authorized by law, the grantee, its successors and
assigns, covenant and agree to indemnify and hold harmless the grantor, its
officers, agents and employees from (i) any and all claims, damages, judgments,
losses, and costs, including fines and penalties, arising out of the violation
of the NOTICES, USE RESTRICTIONS, AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS in this deed by the
grantee, its successors and assigns, and (ii) any and all claims, damages, and
judgments arising out of, or in any manner predicated upon, exposure to
asbestos, lead-based paint, or other condition on any portion of the property
after the date of conveyance.
         (b)   The grantee, its successors and assigns, covenant and agree that
the grantor shall not be responsible for any costs associated with modification
or termination of the NOTICES, USE RESTRICTIONS, AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS in
the deed, including without limitation, any costs associated with additional
investigation or remediation of asbestos, leadbased paint, or other condition
on any portion of the property.
         (c)   Nothing in the hold harmless provision will be construed to
modify or negate the grantor's obligation under the CERCLA Covenant or any
other statutory obligations.
      (5)   Post-transfer discovery of contamination.
         (a)   If an actual or threatened release of a hazardous substance or
petroleum product is discovered on the property after the date of conveyance,
grantee, its successors or assigns, shall be responsible for such release or
newly discovered substance unless grantee is able to demonstrate that such
release or such newly discovered substance was due to grantor's activities, use
or ownership of the property. If the grantee, its successors or assigns believe
the discovered hazardous substance is due to grantor's activities, use or
ownership of the property, grantee will immediately secure the site and notify
the grantor of the existence of the hazardous substances, and grantee will not
further disturb such hazardous substances without the written permission of the
grantor.
         (b)   Grantee, its successors and assigns, as consideration for the
conveyance of the property, agree to release grantor from any liability or
responsibility for any claims arising solely out of the release of any
hazardous substance or petroleum product on the property occurring after the
date of the delivery and acceptance of the deed, where such substance or
product was placed on the property by the grantee, or its successors, assigns,
employees, invitees, agents or contractors, after the conveyance. This
paragraph shall not affect the grantor's responsibilities to conduct response
actions or corrective actions that are required by applicable laws, rules and
regulations, or the grantor's indemnification obligations under applicable
laws.
   (M)   The grantee agrees that it shall neither transfer, lease, nor grant
any interest, privilege, or license in the property without inclusion of the
environmental provision (division (L) of this section) contained in this deed
and grantee shall require the inclusion of this environmental provision
(division (L) of this section) in all further deeds, transfers, leases, or
grant of any interest, privilege or license in the property.
   (N)   The grantee shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local
laws, regulations and standards that are or may become applicable to the
grantee's activities on the property.
   (O)   In the event there is a breach of any of the conditions and covenants
herein contained by the grantee, its successors and assigns, whether caused by
the legal or other inability of the grantee, its successors and assigns, to
perform said conditions and covenants, or otherwise, all right, title and
interest in and to said premises shall revert to and become the property of the
grantor at its option, which in addition to all other remedies for such breach
shall have the right of entry upon said premises, and the grantee, its
successors and assigns, shall forfeit all right, title and interest in the
premises and in any and all of the tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances
thereunto belonging; provided, however, that the failure of the Secretary of
the Department of the Interior to require in any one or more instances complete
performance of any of the conditions or covenants shall not be construed as a
waiver or relinquishment of such future performance, but the obligation of the
grantee, its successors and assigns, with respect to such future performance
shall continue in full force and effect. The grantee, by its acceptance of this
deed, covenants and agrees for itself, and its successors and assigns, that in
the event the grantor exercises its option to revert all right, title, and
interest in the property to the grantor, or the grantee voluntarily returns
title to the property in lieu of a reverter, then the grantee shall provide
protection to and maintenance of the property at all times until such time as
the title is actually reverted or returned to and accepted by the grantor,
including the period of any notice of intent to revert. Such protection and
maintenance shall, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed by the
General Services Administration in its Federal property Management Regulations,
41 C.F.R. 101 - 47.402, in effect at the time of the reversion.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 11-9-09)
§ 97.02 CONDITIONS TO RUN WITH THE LAND.
   The foregoing 15 conditions run with the land and may not be altered,
amended or ignored without the written approval of both the United States of
America and the City of Warsaw.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 11-9-09)
CHAPTER 98: SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Security alarm system attachment to emergency 911 system prohibited
   
98.03   False alarm/erroneous activation of security alarm system prohibited
   
98.04   Fees for false alarm/erroneous activation; connection of security alarm
system
   
98.05   City Clerk to send notice of assessed fees; nonpayment
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, FALSE ALARM or ERRONEOUS ACTIVATION shall
be defined as, but not limited to either the intentional activation of a
security alarm system when there exists no emergency or necessary situation for
the Warsaw Police Department to be dispatched, or activation of a security
alarm system caused by improper or negligent maintenance or operation of the
system or the premises.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-9-19)
§ 98.02 SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM ATTACHMENT TO EMERGENCY 911 SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person or company that owns or controls a premise located in the city
shall permit a security alarm system on or at said premises to be connected, by
dialers or any other means, to the 911 emergency phone system.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-9-19)
§ 98.03 FALSE ALARM/ERRONEOUS ACTIVATION OF SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person or company that owns or controls a premise located in the city
shall permit a security alarm system to be erroneously activated, or to send a
false alarm, on or at said premises or to undergo a false alarm.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-9-19)
§ 98.04 FEES FOR FALSE ALARM/ERRONEOUS ACTIVATION; CONNECTION OF SECURITY ALARM
SYSTEM.
   (A)   For each erroneous activation or false alarm of a security alarm
system, to which the Warsaw Police Department responds, excluding the first two
erroneous activations thereof in each calendar year, the person or company that
owns or controls a premise upon which is located the security alarm system,
shall be charged and assessed a fee of $25 for each erroneous activation.
   (B)   For each connection, either by dialers or any other means, of a
security alarm system to the 911 emergency phone system, the person or company
that owns or controls a premise upon which is located the security alarm
system, shall be for the first offense given a warning and thereafter be
charged and assessed a fee of $25 for each day the connection remains attached
to the 911 emergency phone system.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-9-19)
§ 98.05 CITY CLERK TO SEND NOTICE OF ASSESSED FEES; NONPAYMENT.
   The Warsaw Police Chief shall maintain a record of such false alarms/
erroneous activations and/or connections and shall provide copies thereof to
the City Clerk monthly. The City Clerk shall thereupon send a bill for the
appropriate charges and assessed fees to the person or company who owns or
controls the premises upon which the security alarm system is located. Upon
nonpayment of said bill for a period of 30 days, the city shall be entitled to
take any and all appropriate means to recover the assessed charge or fee; and
to have any unauthorized security alarm system to be removed forthwith from the
police dispatch center, if so connected.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-9-19)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
      
115.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
      
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Issuance of license; standards for issuance
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   License fee schedule
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
   (A)   BUSINESS is defined as an occupation or trade engaged in for the
purpose of obtaining a livelihood or gain. Separate businesses may be
maintained at the same location if any of the three apply:
      (1)   There is a separate entryway for the separate businesses;
      (2)   There is a separate accounting or book keeping by the owner for the
separate businesses; or
      (3)   There are separate employees for the separate businesses.
   (B)   BUSINESS SITUS is defined as a place where the owner or his agent is
conducting business.
(Am. Ord. 1999.002, passed 1-19-99)
Statutory reference:
   For reference see, Ky. Dept. of Revenue v. Bomar 486 S.W. 2d 532, (Ky. 1972)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see §
51.051
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license fiscal year for the city shall begin on July 1 and end on
June 30 of the following year. Any person, firm or corporation beginning a
taxed business or undertaking upon a taxed occupation after the first month of
any fiscal year, shall procure a license to do so by paying such part of annual
license tax for such business or occupation as the months to run to the end of
the fiscal year bear to the entire fiscal year, plus 10% of such annual license
tax. Provided, however, that the minimum license fee charged hereunder shall be
based on six months.
   (B)   Any person failing to obtain a license and said person continuing to
fail to obtain a license for more that 30 days after the expiration of the old
license shall be charged a 10% penalty. If that same person continues to fail
to obtain a license as required above shall be subject to a 10% interest per
annum.
   (C)   Any person failing to obtain an occupational license as required above
shall not be permitted to form their business within the city limits. (Ord.
220.7, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 220.8, passed 7-9-90; Am. Ord. 220.8, passed 6-
10-91)
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
(KRS 92.310)
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the legislative body at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the legislative body may issue an
order suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon
service of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason
for suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the
license may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the legislative body
from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk-Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for a
hearing which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and all members of the legislative body of the
time and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A
majority of the legislative body members shall constitute a quorum to hear the
appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the legislative body present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become
final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(Ord. 2003-0002, passed 5-27-03)
§ 110.10 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other
business entity to engage in any occupation or business activity, within the
limits of the city, unless such person, firm, or corporation or other business
entity shall have first procured from the City Clerk-Treasurer a license to do
so and paid the annual license fee of $50 to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 137.410 there is hereby established a license fee of
$10 per annum upon each coin-operated amusement machine, and also any
electrically operated machine operated as a game or for pleasure and
entertainment by the general public.
(Ord. 220.7, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 1992-110, passed 5-11-92; Am. Ord. 1995-
006, passed 4-10-95; Am. Ord. 1996.006, passed 7-8-96; Am. Ord. 1997-12, passed
6-2-97; Am. Ord. 1997-00015, passed 6-16-97; Am. Ord. 1997-00016, passed 6-16-
97; Am. Ord. 2003-0002, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-8-06)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to procure the license or
pay the fee as herein provided, or shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction thereof
shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $50 for each offense. Each day's
business engaged in without such license constitutes a separate offense. In
addition to paying such fines and the costs, the person, firm, or corporation
so convicted shall have the option of taking out and paying for the proper
license for the business or occupation engaged in and continuing the same to
the end of the fiscal year, or immediately closing up such business and ceasing
to follow such occupation in the city until he shall have proper license to do
so.
(Ord. 220.7, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 2003-0002, passed 5-27-03)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for Relocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set forth
in §
110.10 under “Agents Selling Door to Door.”
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
1994 S-1 Repl.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The
register shall:
         (a)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
         (b)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
            1.   A driver's license number;
            2.   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
            3.   If the identification specified in division(A)(1)(b)1. or 2.
is not available, a social security number may be accepted;
of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold;
         (c)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law
enforcement officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official
duty; and
         (d)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
paragraph, “full description” includes but is not limited to:
            1.   Make;
            2.   Model;
            3.   Color;
            4.   Size;
            5.   Manufacturer;
            6.   Vintage; and
            7.   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
      (2)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the
merchandise shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
      (3)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports. (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city. (KRS
226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100. (KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing certain types of policies
   
113.03   Due date; interest
   
113.04   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 221.3, passed 10-8-84)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING CERTAIN TYPES OF POLICIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy insuring against loss by fire and allied perils or other
casualty, and type of automobile and/or motor vehicle insurance policy whose
owner resides in or is located in the city, shall be 6% of the premiums
actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of
such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which such company is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax imposed
upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) or premiums received by any self-
funded health benefits program for state employees created pursuant to KRS
Chapter 18A.
(Ord. 221.3, passed 10-8-84)
§ 113.03 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 221.3, passed 10-8-84)
§ 113.04 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Fire and allied perils.
(Ord. 221.3, passed 10-8-84)
CHAPTER 114: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Occupational license application required
   
114.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
114.04   Apportionment
   
114.05   Employers to withhold
   
114.06   Returns required
   
114.07   Extensions
   
114.08   Refunds
   
114.09   Federal audit provisions
   
114.10   Administrative provisions
   
114.11   Information to remain confidential
   
114.12   Use of occupational license tax
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The city of Warsaw, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code;.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease, or
rental of goods or services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2006, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2006, that would
otherwise terminate.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class, county, urban county,
charter county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing
district, or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy
net profits, gross receipts, or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenues both within and without the city means gross receipts as defined in
this section, and as apportioned under §
114.04;
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenues only within the city means gross receipts as defined in this section;.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain a occupational license from the city before
the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business status.
Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address, the
cessation of business, or any other changes that render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city.
      (1)   The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.75% of all
wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work done or services
performed or rendered in the city by every resident and nonresident who is an
employee.
      (2)   The occupational license tax shall be measured by 0.0% of the gross
receipts from business conducted in the city by a resident or nonresident
business entity.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their gross receipts derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)    Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their gross receipts derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages; and
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, or distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor.
      (8)   Any company providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services as defined in KRS 136.602. If only a portion of an
entity’s business is providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services, this exclusion applies only to that portion of the
business that provides multichannel video programming services or
communications services including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08; Am. Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, gross receipts
shall be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual's
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity's activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity's business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity's business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this subsection,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is "passed through" to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
"passed through" these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
114.03 of this chapter. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W 2 and W 3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
subsection unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for,
or pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed
by this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
114.03 of this chapter shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all
cases where the employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter
from the employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing
with the city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The city, may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   Every business entity making payments of $600 or more to persons other
than employees for services performed within the city are responsible for
maintaining the records of those payments and for completing IRS Form 1099 on
or before February 28 of the year following the close of the calendar year in
which such compensation was paid. Persons or business entities not required to
remit a Form 1099 remain liable to the city to remit equivalent information for
any compensation made to persons or business entities that are not employees.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
114.05 of this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the
extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two years from the date the
overpayment was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   Where there has been an overpayment of net profits tax upon business
levied under §
114.03 of this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to any person or
business entity to the extent of overpayment only upon a written application
for refund or credit to the city within two years from the date that
overpayment was made.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division.
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates
gross receipts, or omits an amount properly includable in gross receipts s, or
both, which understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the
amount of gross receipts stated in the return, the additional tax may be
assessed at any time within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division, or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this subsection may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this subsection,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing
the return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law
for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
114.09 of this chapter has been extended by an agreement between the business
entity and the city, the limitation contained in this subsection shall be
extended accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division or six
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division and division (A) of this section,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax laws or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information form the files and records of the
Kentucky Revenue Cabinet and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting gross receipts or compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
general revenue fund.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed
25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
114.05 of this chapter may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the
tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however,
the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
114.03 of this chapter and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in
divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D) of this section by civil action in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be
entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it
in enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
114.11 of this chapter by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer
information without authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not longer than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
114.11 of this chapter by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-08)
CHAPTER 115: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
115.01   Regulations for wireless telecommunications facilities adopted by
reference
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 REGULATIONS FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   The wireless telecommunications facilities ordinance, and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
code as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of this ordinance are available for public inspection during
normal hours at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2001-0007, passed 10-8-01)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event of an violation of this chapter or any special use permit
issued pursuant to this chapter, the county may impose and collect, and the
holder of the special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities
shall pay to the county, fines or penalties as set forth below.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be subject to being enjoined by
circuit court upon application thereto, and any costs incurred by the county or
any person seeking such injunctive relief may be recovered from the violating
party.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall also be punishable as a Class A
misdemeanor under Kentucky law (a fine of up to $500 dollars and up to one year
in jail). However, for each week’s continued violation shall constitute a
separate additional violation.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter, the holder of the special
use permit for wireless telecommunication facilities may not use the payment of
fines, liquidated damages or other penalties, to evade or avoid compliance with
this chapter or any section of this chapter. An attempt to do so shall subject
the holder of the special use permit to termination and revocation of the
special use permit. The county may also seek injunctive relief to prevent the
continued violation of this chapter, without limiting other remedies available
to the county.
(Ord. 2001-0007, passed 10-8-01)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and general provisions
   
116.02   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
116.03   License
   
116.04   License application
   
116.05   Approval of application
   
116.06   Denial of application
   
116.07   Revocation and suspension
   
116.08   Hearings
   
116.09   Expiration date of license; renewal
   
116.10   Regulatory license fee
   
116.11   Additional restrictions on sale by licensee; Sunday sales
   
116.12   Dormancy
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote economic growth,
development and tourism within the city by making provisions for the sale of
alcoholic beverages by the drink at certain restaurants, dining facilities,
hotels, motels, and inns consistent with the provisions of state statutes now
in effect and as may be hereafter amended by the Kentucky General Assembly.
   (B)   The provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control laws contained
in KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243, and 244 pertaining to licenses and regulations
of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, including definitions contained
therein, as well as amendments and supplements thereto, are hereby adopted,
except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.02 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The duties of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (the
"City ABC Administrator") shall be assigned to the office of City Clerk.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor and may be
removed by the Mayor with or without cause. No conflict of interest shall be
deemed to arise if the individual appointed as City ABC Administrator is also
employed by the city in some other capacity.
   (C)   The City ABC Administrator shall take an oath prescribed in Section
228 of the Constitution and shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety
in the penal sum of not less than $1,000 before entering upon his or her
duties. The cost of this bond shall be borne by the city.
   (D)   The salary for City ABC Administrator, if any, shall be fixed from
time to time by the Council.
   (E)   The function of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to city licenses and regulations as the functions of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, created by KRS 241.030, with respect to state
licenses and regulations, except that no regulation adopted by a City ABC
Administrator may be less stringent than the statutes relating to alcoholic
beverage control or than the regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator is authorized to examine and inspect, at
any reasonable time, all books and records required to be maintained by
licensees under KRS 244.150. The licensee shall submit to the City ABC
Administrator a copy of all reports which the licensee is required or elects to
submit to or file with the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (G)   The City ABC Administrator, on his or her own initiative or on
complaint of any person, may institute proceedings to suspend or revoke any
license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   The business or occupation of manufacturing, trafficking, or selling
alcoholic beverages, wither wholesale or retail, is of such a nature as to
require special regulations and supervision and special license provisions. For
the privilege of causing, permitting, and engaging in the actions, business,
and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic beverages
in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is hereby
established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in the following schedule. The actions, business, and transactions
authorized and permitted thereby and the expiration dates thereof shall be and
are the same as those of the state licenses to which the city licenses
correspond and which are indicated and described in the sections of state law
indicated in the following schedule. The fees for such city licenses shall be
the maximum allowed by law as indicated in the following schedule.
   (B)   No person shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the actions,
business, or transactions authorized by such city and state licenses within the
city without both a valid city license and a valid state license therefore:
TYPE OF LICENSE FEE
TYPE OF LICENSE                                                     FEE
Distilled spirit licenses as set forth in KRS 243.030:
 Distiller's license, per annum                                     $500.00
 Rectifier's license, per annum                                     $3,000.00
 Wholesaler's distilled spirits and wine license, per annum         $3,000.00
Quota retail package license, per annum                             $600.00
Quota retail drink license, per annum                               $600.00
Special temporary license, per event                                $50.00
Nonquota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,   $2,000.00
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,   $600.00
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,   $300.00
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per   $200.00
event
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                      $300.00
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                      $2,000.00
Caterer's License per annum                                         $800.00
Bottling House or Bottling House Storage License, per annum         $1,000.00
Limited Golf Course License, per annum (includes distilled spirits, $500.00
wine and malt beverages
Malt Beverage Licenses as follows:
 Brewer's license, per annum                                        $500.00
 Microbrewery license, per annum                                    $500.00
 Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum                     $400.00
 Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum           $200.00
 Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum      $200.00
 Malt beverage brew-on-premises license, per annum                  $100.00
 
      (1)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall
be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge
for each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same license at
the same premises.
      (2)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a nonquota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
   (C)   Any city license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be prominently
displayed on the premises in conjunction with the display of the state license
(s) in accordance to state law.
   (D)   In no way shall a license set forth herein confer a right to any
person or entity not otherwise authorized to conduct that type of business.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord.
2015-02, passed 3-9-15) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   A completed application shall be submitted to the City ABC
Administrator. The form provided may be the same form utilized by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (B)   Applicants for a license shall pay a license fee as set forth above.
Any license issued after July 1 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is
based on the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period. However,
the cost of any license shall not be less than that for a period of six months.
   (C)   The applicant for a city license shall tender with its application a
consent document which shall state:
      "The undersigned applicant hereby grants its irrevocable consent to the
City ABC Administrator, or his or her duly appointed designee, to come upon and
inspect and search the licensed premises at any reasonable time."
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.05 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the date of the application for an original city
license and 15 days of the date of any application for renewal of such license,
the City ABC Administrator shall, by mail or personal delivery, notify the
applicant, in writing, of either the approval or the disapproval thereof or
whether a hearing in regard thereto shall be held.
   (B)   If the City ABC Administrator rejects an application, the City ABC
Administrator shall notify the applicant of his or her decision by registered
mail at the address given in the application or supplement. The applicant may,
within 30 days after the date of the mailing of the notice from the City ABC
Administrator, indicate, in writing, his or her desire for a hearing.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.06 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   The City ABC Administrator, pursuant to KRS 243.450, shall not approve any
application for a city license for which provision is made herein if:
   (A)   The applicant or the premises for which the license is being sought
does not comply fully with the provisions of this chapter and with all
alcoholic beverage control statutes and the regulations of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board and the regulations of the City ABC Administrator;
   (B)   The applicant and any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or
employee has caused, permitted, or engaged in any act for which the revocation
or non-issuance of a state or city license is authorized;
   (C)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or
employee had a state license or city license which was revoked within two years
of the date of application, where the premises or any portion thereof described
in a state license or city license was revoked during such time;
   (D)   The applicant has made any false material statements or
representations in his or her application; or
   (E)   The City ABC Administrator is otherwise not required to approve the
license.
(Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or
suspended by the City ABC Administrator if the licensee shall have violated any
to the provisions of KRS Chapter 241, 243, or 244, or any rule or regulation of
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board or of the City ABC Administrator or
as described in KRS 243.490.
   (B)   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may also be revoked or
suspended in accordance to KRS 243.500.
   (C)   The City ABC Administrator may institute proceedings, either on his or
her own, or on the complaint of any person, to revoke or suspend a license.
   (D)   The City ABC Administrator shall notify the licensee of the violation
in writing and provide the licensee with the opportunity for a hearing as set
forth herein.
   (E)   The licensee may have the alternative, subject to the approval of the
City ABC Administrator, to pay in lieu of part or all of the days of any
suspension period, a sum as follows: Distillers, rectifiers, vintners, brewers,
and blenders, $1,000 per day; wholesale liquor licensees, $400 per day;
wholesale beer licensees,$400 per day; retail licensees authorized to sell
distilled spirits, wine, or beer by the package or drink, $50 per day; and all
remaining licensees,$50 per day.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.08 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Should a request for a hearing be made for the refusal to issue or
renew a license or for the suspension or revocation of a license, the City ABC
Administrator is to hold said hearing consistent with KRS Chapter 13B and
pursuant to the general practice procedures found in the Kentucky Rules of
Civil Procedure and the following shall apply:
      (1)   Definitions. All words are used as defined in the alcoholic
beverage control law of Kentucky (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243, and 244), unless
otherwise specified.
      (2)   Appearances.  Any applicant or licensee may appear and be heard in
person, or by duly appointed attorney, and may produce under oath evidence
relative and material to matters before the Board.
      (3)   Briefs.  Briefs may be filed at the request of the City ABC
Administrator, or at the option of the applicant or licensee.
      (4)   Rules of evidence. The rules of evidence governing civil
proceedings in courts of the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall govern hearings
before the City ABC Administrator; provided, however, that the hearing officer
may relax such rules in any case where, in his/her judgment, the ends of
justice will be better served by so doing.
      (5)   Subpoenas.  The City ABC Administrator shall have subpoena power
for such hearings and shall at the request of the applicant made with names and
addresses of those desired issue with subpoenas.
      (6)   Transcripts. Upon request and at the costs of the applicant or
licensee the hearing may be transcribed.
      (7)   Decisions. All decisions shall be written and based upon evidence
developed at the hearing.
   (B)   Appeals from orders of the City ABC Administrator shall be taken in
accordance to KRS 241.200.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.09 EXPIRATION DATE OF LICENSE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on June 30 of
each year. Application for renewal of such license shall be submitted no later
than 30 days before expiration thereof and shall be made pursuant to §
116.05 upon a showing the criteria therefor has been met, the filing and
approval of a renewal application, and the payment of the applicable annual
license fee(s) as set forth herein.
   (B)   The renewal of the license issued pursuant to this chapter shall not
be construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior
to such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the
licensee.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned
either as to license or location except with the prior approval of the City ABC
Administrator and not then until a payment of $100 shall be made to the city.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.10 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   A regulatory license fee in the amount of 1% is imposed annually upon
the gross receipts of each establishment located in the city and licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises, for the
purpose of full reimbursement to the city of the estimated costs of any
additional policing, regulatory, legal or administrative related expenses. The
regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees, or
licenses permitted by law, but a credit against the fee shall be allowed in an
amount equal to the license fee imposed in §§
116.09 and
116.11 herein.
   (B)   The City Council shall adopt at the beginning of each budget period
for each fiscal year such a percentage rate as shall be reasonably estimated to
insure full reimbursement to the city for the cost of any additional policing,
regulatory, or administrative expenses relating to this chapter.
   (C)    Payment of the regulatory license fee shall accompany tax returns
approved for use by the City ABC Administrator, submitted to the City Clerk by
the twentieth day of the month following the quarter for the preceding
quarter’s sales. There shall be a quarterly credit equal to one-fourth of the
original initial license cost, representing the pro rata portion of the initial
license cost for which provision is made in this chapter.
   (D)   Failure to pay the quarterly remittance within ten days after the due
date shall constitute a violation of this chapter, and in addition, shall
constitute grounds for an immediate 30-day suspension of the license for which
provision is made herein.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 2021-
04, passed 7-12-21; Am. Ord. 2022-04, passed 9-12-22) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON SALE BY LICENSEE; SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 244.290 and 244.480, at no time shall
any licensee sell any alcoholic beverage by the drink when the licensee does
not have food available for sale, and in no event other than as set forth below
may any alcoholic beverage be sold between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m., Tuesday through Saturday, nor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 1:00
p.m. on Sunday, nor between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Monday.
   (B)   In order to sell liquor by the drink on Sunday between the hours of 1:
00 p.m. and midnight Sunday evening, the licensee must apply for and obtain
from the city a limited Sunday drink license. Provided however, (1) in years on
which New Year’s Eve falls on a Sunday, licensees may remain open and alcoholic
beverages may be sold until 1:00 a.m. on Monday January 1; and (2) in years on
which other holidays fall on a Sunday, a licensee may apply for and obtain a
special temporary license from the city to serve early on just one Sunday
holiday per year.
   (C)   The limited Sunday drink licenses shall be issued only to those
hotels, motels, inns, or restaurants authorized to sell alcoholic beverages by
the drink under KRS 242.185(3); and to those the holders of distilled spirits
and wine retail drink licenses that have applied to the state administrator and
meet all other legal requirements for obtaining a limited Sunday liquor by the
drink license.
   (D)   All terms and procedures set forth herein for licenses for the sale of
alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises, including but
not limited to the procedures for application, approval, denial, hearing,
expiration and renewal, shall apply to limited Sunday drink licenses.
   (E)   The license fee for the limited Sunday drink licenses shall be $300,
which shall also be credited against the regulatory license fee set forth in §
116.10, in the amount of a monthly credit of $25, representing the pro rata
portion of the initial license cost.
   (F)   During the restricted hours set forth in division (A), no person who
has a valid city license for the sale of distilled spirits or wine or malt
beverages at retail shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the actions,
business, or transactions authorized and permitted thereby unless otherwise
provided herein. During such times, all persons who have such city licenses
shall cause the licensed premises to be closed and vacated by all persons
except the applicant and those persons identified on the application for such
city licenses or any supplements thereto as officers, agents, or employees of
the person to whom such license was issued. All other persons shall vacate the
licenses premises and remove themselves there from during such times; however,
any person upon the premises who purchased any alcoholic beverages by the drink
from the licensee within 30 minutes prior to any such times may remain upon the
premises for a period not to exceed 30 minutes thereafter for the sole purpose
of the consumption of the drink purchased.
   (G)   If a separate department of such licensed premises is maintained in a
manner previously approved in writing by the City ABC Administrator as being
capable of being locked, closed off, and separated from the remainder of the
licensed premises and all distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages and all
fixtures and apparatus connected with the acts of business and transactions
authorized by the state licenses and city licenses for the retail sale of
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages from such premises are located
within such approved department, and such approved department is continuously
kept locked, closed off and separated from the remainder of the licensed
premises during such times, the remainder of the licensed premises may remain
open and any lawful activity may be conducted thereon during such times.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord.
2005-0007, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 2006-13, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2022-03,
passed - -22; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-8-24) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by the license for which provision is made herein or else the
license will be declared dormant and become null and void after 90 days.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall become null and void and revoked by the City ABC Administrator.
At the expiration of the 90 day period the license shall be surrendered to the
City ABC Administrator, unless:
      (1)   The licensee is unable to continue in business at the premises for
which a license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death,
the acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other
governmental agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
existing lease; and
      (2)   The licensee shall furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified
statement setting forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in
business prior to the expiration of the 90 days of inactivity, for any of the
reasons set forth herein.
   (C)   The City ABC Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy with
the license continuing to remain in effect during the license period or until
same is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no
business is transacted during said period.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision herein is hereby classified as a civil
offense pursuant to KRS 65.8808 and KRS 65.60 et seq. and such classification
is intended, and shall be construed, to provide an additional or supplemental
means of obtaining compliance with the provisions herein, and nothing contained
herein, or in KRS 65.60 et seq. shall prohibit the enforcement of the
provisions herein by any other means authorized by law, specifically, without
limitation, the provisions or division (B) herein.
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of any provision herein is not
contested by the person charged with the violation and the violation is timely
remedied, the civil fine to be imposed for each offense shall be $50 for the
first offense, $90 for the second offense, and $210 for the third and
thereafter, offense.
      (2)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, or if the violation is not remedied, the maximum
civil fine which may be imposed at the discretion of the Board shall be from
$20 to $200 for the first offense; from $60 to $600 for the second offense; and
from $180 to $1,800 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
      (3)   Each section violated shall be considered a separate fineable
offense. If two or more sections are violated, the fines shall be cumulative
and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a violation exists shall be
considered a separate offense without issuance of a separate citation.
   (B)   Any violation of a provision herein shall constitute a violation,
punishable by a fine of up to $500 for each offense, to be prosecuted as all
other municipal ordinance violations are prosecuted. Each day of each violation
shall constitute a separate offense. However, nothing contained herein shall
prohibit the city from enforcing any provision of this chapter by following the
applicable state penalties set forth in KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243, and 244.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0006, passed 9-12-05)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
      
131.   CONCEALED WEAPONS; FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Loitering
   
130.03   Nudity in public places
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years, or, as may be
otherwise phrased, any person of the age of 17 years or under.
      (2)   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor: As a natural or
adoptive parent; as a legal guardian; or as a person to whom legal custody has
been given by custody of the Court.
      (3)   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, or to stay unnecessarily upon or
in any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway.
      (4)   ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires
actual or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is
that the parent or guardian must actually know about the child actually
violating this section, or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably
prudent parent or guardian should have known the child was violating this
section.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to remain or be in a public
place after 11:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. on any week day (Sunday through
Thursday evenings) or after Midnight and before 6:00 a.m. on any weekend day
(Friday night/Saturday morning or Saturday night/Sunday morning).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow such a minor to be or to remain in or upon a public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in division (B)(3).
      (3)   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway in the city after 11:00 pm. and
before 6:00 a.m. on week day (Sunday through Tuesday evenings) or after
Midnight and before 6:00 a.m. on any weekend day (Friday night/Saturday morning
or Saturday night/Sunday morning) shall not be considered in violation of this
section:
         (a)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent as defined above in
division (A)(2), including legal guardian;
         (b)   When exercising First Amendment Rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by the parent or guardian of such minor is in the possession of
such minor specifying when, where, and in what manner said minor will be
exercising such First Amendment rights;
         (c)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor's
parent has communicated to the police department the facts establishing such
reasonable necessity;
         (d)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police office or the Police Department;
         (e)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour
of the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or
other voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place
and time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer
of the Police Department;
         (f)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Mayor in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway permitted, and the period
of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Mayor shall notify the Police Department of said
information;
         (g)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this
state authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
         (h)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway reasonable
believed to be in violation of this section, shall follow the duties of a
police officer set forth in KRS 610.200 through 610.280 which governs the
taking or receiving of a child into custody on a charge of committing an
offense. All other provisions of the State Unified Juvenile Code shall apply.
      (2)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section shall confront such minor and
request such information as his or her name, age, address of his or her parent
or legal guardian.
(Ord. 1996-004, passed 5-13-96; Am. Ord. 1997.008, passed 4-14-97) Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 130.02 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person is guilty of loitering when he remains in a public place with
no legitimate purpose except to perform criminal activity, including
trespassing, littering, harassing, threatening legitimate property users, and/
or criminal mischief. Violation of this section shall be considered a class B
misdemeanor with punishment of fine $5 to $250 and/or up to 90 days in jail.
   (B)   The property owner upon whose property the loitering is occurring
shall post a sign, at his own expense, listing this section of the city code
and notifying the public that there shall be no loitering subject to the
punishment of this section.
(Ord. 1995-011, passed 9-11-95)
§ 130.03 NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall have the same
definition as the term PUBLIC PLACE is defined in K.R.S. 525.010.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to appear in any public place in
such a manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area,
anus, vulva or genitals, or any simulation thereof, or for any female to appear
in such manner or attire as to expose to view the portion of the breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or simulation
thereof. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the female
breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female
breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other
wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   (C)   Pursuant to K.R.S. 83A.065(2) the offense of violating the terms of
this section is designated as a misdemeanor and a criminal fine not to exceed
the amount set forth in K.R.S. 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to
exceed the periods set forth in K.R.S. 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed for
the offense.
(Ord. 1996-002, passed 5-13-96)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provision of §
130.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed 30 days, or both, for the first day's violation. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1996-004, passed 5-13-96; Am. Ord. 1997.008, passed 4-14-97)
CHAPTER 131: CONCEALED WEAPONS; FIREARMS
   
131.01   Definition
§ 131.01 DEFINITION.
   FIREARM. Any weapon which will expel a projectile by the action of an
explosive.
(Ord. 1996.007, passed 7-8-96)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING CODE
      156.   SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Appeals
   
150.03   Application
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Building Inspector, see §
31.37
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection during normal business hours. (Ord. 120.6, passed 2-11-85)
   (B)   The City Building Inspector shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The City Fire Chief and the County Fire Chief are hereby charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
   (D)   The City Building Inspector is charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Kentucky Plumbing Code and Kentucky Electrical Code (which
are part of the Kentucky Building Code).
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the City Building Inspector under this
chapter may be taken to the board established to hear such appeals as set forth
in state law.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.03 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code is extended to all single-family
and two-family dwellings in the city which are to constructed or remodeled.
(Ord. 1989-6, passed 5-8-89)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The amendments to the city's Comprehensive Plan, and the of Goals and
Objectives, Land Use, Population, Environment, Economy, Transportation,
Business Activity, Housing, Public Facilities, and Recreation elements thereof,
having been duly adopted by the Warsaw Planning Commission on July 6, 1987, are
incorporated herein by reference as if herein fully set forth and, are hereby
adopted and approved as the Warsaw Comprehensive Plan, a true copy of which is
attached to Ord. 221.5 as Exhibit A.
   (B)   A copy of the Comprehensive Plan shall be kept on file in the office
of the City Clerk- Treasurer and shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
(Ord. 221.5, passed 8-10-87; Am. Ord. 1995-016, passed 10-9-95)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Enforcement, violation notice and penalties
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of local administrator
   
152.26   Establishment of development permit
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General construction standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered a zones) and/or floodways
   
152.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
152.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter 'a'
   
152.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variances
   
152.60    Appeals and variance procedures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in Kentucky Revised
Statutes 82.082 delegated to local government units the authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of Warsaw, Kentucky, hereby
adopts the following floodplain management ordinance, as follows.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Warsaw are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage, and;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure.  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute
a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should
be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD.  A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the "100 year flood"). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as "existing structures".
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the City of Warsaw
based on specific technical base flood elevation data which established the
area of special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER.
      (1)    A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source; and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the "regulatory floodway".
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
152.60, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the will consider
the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to government
responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty to one hundred
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater City of Warsaw than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must
be applied not just to the elevation of the lowest floor or flood proofing
level, but also to the level of protection provided to all components of the
structure, such as building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
       (1)    Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of
a claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management
laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building
covered by a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and
the state or community declares the building to be substantially or
repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate,
flood proof, demolish, or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250 - Plans for dams, levees, and the like to
be approved and permit issued by cabinet - (Environmental and Public Protection
Cabinet).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county, or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions which are not of such size or type as to require approval
by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filling of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch, or
system established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the
same except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by
the cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water
resources in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control
thereof so notified. The Kentucky Bureau of Surface Mining through KRS Chapter
350 shall have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the
regulation of dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other
obstructions across or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which
structures are permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining
operations.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.320 - Officers required to enforce law.
      (1)   The mayor or chief executive officer of each city and the county
judge/executive of each county, shall have the concurrent duty of enforcing
with the cabinet, within their respective cities and counties, the provisions
of KRS 151.250, 151.280 and 151.310 and rules and regulations issued
thereunder.
      (2)   When a violation of KRS 151.250, 151.280 or 151.310 within his or
her jurisdiction is brought to the attention of a mayor or chief executive
officer of a city or a county judge/executive, he or she shall immediately
notify the cabinet of the location and details of such violation.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR_F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a Federal or
State agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure's foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
"recreational vehicle" (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM's. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of The City of Warsaw's floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of The City of Warsaw's adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM's and Digitally Referenced FIRM's
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (see BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-year flood. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of PROBATION, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, "repair" is considered to
occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during a five-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure"; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA) and, as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator or other delegated, designated, or
qualified community official as determined by the City Council of Warsaw from
available technical studies, historical information, and other available and
reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City Council of Warsaw
which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of
Warsaw.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for Gallatin
County, dated March 18, 2008, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRMS), other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by
the City of Warsaw, and for those land areas acquired by the City of Warsaw
through annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of
applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other
areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to
the City Council by the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City
Council pursuant to statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS
and/or FIRM are permanent records of the City of Warsaw and are on file and
available for review by the public during regular business hours at the City
Clerk's Office at 303 US 42 (Main Street) East, Warsaw, Kentucky 41095.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
152.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council of Warsaw, any
officer or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance
Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.13 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this ordnance
and/or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation: notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly
authorized employee or agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable
cause to believe that a person has caused development to occur which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain
Administrator may issue a citation to the offender stating the violation, prior
notices of violation issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the
development into conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and
within what period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or
penalties are recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the
citation is issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date
the citation is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set
forth in the citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or
requesting a hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the
citation is issued does not respond to the citation within seven days, that
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $250 or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council of Warsaw hereby appoints the Code Enforcement Officer to
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria §§
152.41(B) and
152.43(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
State a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
      (3)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood elevation
data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
152.40 through
152.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
   (C)   Notification of other agencies.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
      (2)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
      (3)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
   (D)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
152.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
      (2)   Certification required by §
152.41(B) (elevation or flood proofing of nonresidential structures) as shown
on a completed and certified floodprooofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
      (3)   Certification required by §
152.41(C) (elevated structures);
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.44(A) (subdivision standards);
      (5)   Certification required by §
152.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (8)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter
as specified in §
152.13.
   (E)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
      (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.60(C)(2);
      (2)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46;
      (3)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.41(B) a flood proofing certificate;
      (4)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
   (F)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the administrator by this chapter.
      (2)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or other persons having charge or control of such request entry.
      (3)   If entry is refused, the administrator shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      (4)   When the administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)    Stop work orders. Upon notice from the administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person
doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (H)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the
provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
   (I)   Liability.
      (1)   Any officer, employee, or member of the floodplain administrator's
staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for the applicable
governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby
render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all
personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act
performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter
shall be defended by the department of law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
   (J)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit.
      (1)   A floodplain construction permit, and all provisions contained
therein, shall expire if the holder of a floodplain construction permit has not
commenced construction within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or fame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.07, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of §
152.41(C).
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced. Title
401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a state
floodplain permit: the applicant shall provide cross sections for determining
floodway boundaries(and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed
construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall
be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no
more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at
those points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section
shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional
cross sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) of this section or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood proofed below an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than two feet above the level of the base flood
elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
152.26(A)(3).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) of this
section.
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation two feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and/or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result
of a flood.
         (b)   All Manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation, and
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Excepting manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage
as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)    Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for "manufactured
homes".
      (4)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If §
152.41(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§ 152.40 through 152.46.
   (F)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems, and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (2)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.07.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES .
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
152.41(B).
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is the
lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER 'A'.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated 'A'
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level two feet above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage, parking or shelter; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
§ 152.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Flood proofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 152.60 APPEALS AND VARIANCES PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section of the ordinance
are based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a
piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for
a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying
with the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to
the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of variance and appeal board. The City Council of Warsaw
has established an Appeal Board consisting of The Warsaw Board of Adjustments.
   (C)   Duties of variance and appeals board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction,
substantial improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a
lot of one half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of divisions (D) and (E) of this section have been fully considered.
As the lot size increases beyond one half acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. "Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under "Public safety and nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (8)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of Sections 6.3 A
through 6.3 E are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the City Clerk and shall be recorded in a manner
so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of "historic structures" (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-11-08)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Mobile homes to be located only in mobile home parks; exception
   
153.03   Foundation requirements
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure used, or so
constructed as to permit its being used, as a conveyance in a single unit on
the public streets or highways and designed to permit occupancy thereof as a
dwelling place for one or more persons. The system for allowing transporting
the structure is included in the structure itself (including but not limited
to: axles, wheels, tongue) as opposed to being transported on a trailer or
wagon separate and apart from the structure. These structures are not subject
to the purview of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Department of Housing, Building
and Construction, Division of Building Code Enforcement.
   MODULAR HOME. A manufactured home built to the specifications of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky Plumbing and Building Codes and subject to inspection
thereupon. The modular home is built in one location and is transported by
specially built and/or designed trailer or wagon for a one- time transfer to
its permanent location where it is placed upon a permanent foundation. Its mode
of transportation is not built into its permanent structure.
(Ord. 1994-002, passed 2-14-94)
§ 153.02 MOBILE HOMES TO BE LOCATED ONLY IN MOBILE HOME PARKS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
construct, erect, establish, move upon, situate, place, park, place upon
foundations, or use trailers or mobile homes within the city limits from and
after the date of the enactment of this section except within and upon a
lawfully constructed and licensed mobile home park within said city.
   (B)   There is excepted from the requirements of division (A) above the
temporary establishment of a mobile home or trailer upon or within a business
zone within the city, as defined in the zoning code, for a period of not more
than 90 days provided, however, that the establishment of the mobile home shall
be allowed only after a petition is filed with the City Council and only upon
issuance of temporary permits by the City Council for a stated number of days.
The petition shall be issued only for legitimate business use or office space,
but not for residence or occupancy purposes.
(Ord. 920.4, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1994-002, passed 2-14-94) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All manufactured/mobile and modular homes within the city limits shall have
a permanent foundation around the parameter of the outside walls and the
parameter walls of these structures will be fastened to the outside foundation
every 72 to 96 inches. This will be inspected by the building inspector at
owners expense on all manufactured/mobile and modular homes newly installed
within the city limits and will be approved before occupancy. This requirement
does not apply to mobile home parks within the city.
(Ord. 2000-003, passed 3-13-00)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense.
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Preliminary plat
   
154.02   Tentative approval
   
154.03   Principles and standards
   
154.04   Improvements
   
154.05   Final plat and approval
   
154.06   Variances
§ 154.01 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider of any tract or parcel of land located within the
corporate limits of the city or within that part of the unincorporated
territory of Gallatin County shown on the map entitled “City of Warsaw Major
Street Plan” adopted         shall not proceed with any construction work
including grading on the proposed subdivision which may affect the arrangement
of streets, or to transfer, sell, agree to sell, or negotiate to sell any lot
or parcel located within the proposed subdivision until he has obtained from
the Planning and Zoning Commission the tentative approval of the preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision. Where the proposed subdivision does not
involve the laying out of new streets or the grading, paving, and installation
of water and sewer lines in streets which shall have acquired the legal status
of public streets prior to the adoption of these regulations, the subdivider
may submit a final plat without having submitted a preliminary plat.
   (B)   Application for such tentative approval shall be made in writing by
the owner of the tract or parcel or by his authorized agent to the Planning and
Zoning Commission and filed with the Secretary of the Commission. One copy of
the preliminary plat shall be filed with the application.
   (C)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet or less to
the inch horizontally and 20 feet or less to the inch vertically and shall
contain:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      (2)   Its location as forming a part of some larger tract or parcel of
land referred to in the indexes of the records of Gallatin County.
      (3)   The name and address of the person to whom the notice of the
hearing shall be sent.
      (4)   The names and addresses of the owners of the land immediately
adjoining the land to be platted.
      (5)   The names and addresses of the subdivider and of the engineer or
surveyor.
      (6)   Sufficient information to accurately locate the land included in
the plat.
      (7)   North-point and scale.
      (8)   The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided accurate in scale
and bearing.
      (9)   The location, widths, and other dimensions of all existing or
platted streets and other important features such as railroad lines, water
courses, exceptional topography, etc. within and contiguous to the tract to be
subdivided.
      (10)   The location, widths, and otherr dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, easements, and lots.
      (11)   Existing sanitary sewers, storm drains, and culverts within the
tract immediately adjacent thereto.
      (12)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved for the use of all property owners with the same purpose indicated.
(Ord. 930.1, passed - - )
§ 154.02 TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   The preliminary plat will be checked by the Planning and Zoning Commission
as to its conformity with the principles and standards set forth in §
154.03. If found satisfactory, the Commission will give its tentative approval
to the preliminary plat. Such tentative approval of the preliminary plat by the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall not constitute an acceptance of the plan
or plat of the subdivision but shall be deemed merely a general approval of the
layout submitted. It is to be understood that the City Engineer or the County
Road Engineer and the State Board of Health in the case of plats located in the
unincorporated area shall have the power to modify any engineering or
construction details such as the type of improvements, the layout of the
sewerage and drainage systems wherever he or they shall consider it advisable.
(Ord. 930.1, passed - - )
§ 154.03 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The street layout of all subdivisions shall conform to the major
street plan. Whenever a tract to be divided embraces any part of a street it
shall be so designated that all proposed streets shall be in alignment with
existing or platted streets in the adjoining territory and in general
conformity with a plan for the most advantageous development of the entire
neighborhood. The streets shall be extended to the boundaries of the tract to
be subdivided unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or,
where in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, such extension is
not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision with adjoining subdivisions or tracts. Streets shall intersect each
other as nearly at right angles as practicable.
   (B)   Major streets shall be at least 50 feet wide between property lines
except where indicated width between property lines of minor streets shall be
at least 50 feet and that of local service streets or courts not over 400 feet
long shall be 40 feet. Alleys, where provided, shall be at least 20 feet wide.
For the purpose of these regulations, a local service street or court is
defined as a street which serves the properties abutting thereon exclusively; a
minor street is a street which in addition to serving the abutting properties,
serves as a means of access to properties abutting on other streets; a major
street is a street shown as such on the major street plan.
   (C)   Blocks shall not exceed 1200 feet in length and dead-end streets shall
not be over 600 feet long unless topographical conditions are such as to render
these provisions impracticable. In blocks over 900 feet long, a crosswalk at
least ten feet wide shall be provided near the center and entirely across the
block.
   (D)   In general, street property lines within the block deflecting at any
one point more than ten degrees shall be connected with a curve. The radius of
curvature on the center line shall not be less than 300 feet for major streets,
100 feet for minor and local service streets. At the end of a dead-end street a
turning circle with a minimum radius of 40 feet along the property line shall
be provided. At all street intersections the corners of the street property
lines shall be rounded by a circular arc whose radius shall not be less than
ten feet. This minimum radius shall be increased when the angle of intersection
is less than 60 degrees. In business districts a corner cut-off may be
substituted for the circular arc. Curb intersections shall be rounded by radii
of at least 20 feet. The outer curb of a turning circle shall have a radius of
at least 30 feet.
   (E)   The maximum grades shall not exceed 8% for major streets and 14% for
minor or local service streets. All changes in grade shall be connected by
vertical curves of practical length.
   (F)   The least width of roadways for major and minor streets shall be 27
feet between curbs for local service streets not over 400 feet in length, the
least width shall be 24 feet between curbs.
   (G)   So far as practicable side lot lines shall be at right angles to the
street on which the lot faces or radial to curved street lines. Lots with
double frontage shall be avoided. Lots for residence purposes shall be at least
40 feet wide at the building line. No lot shall have an area of less than 5000
square feet.
   (H)   No plat showing reserve strips controlling the access to public ways
will be approved except where the control of land comprising such strips are
definitely placed within the jurisdiction of the city or county under
conditions meeting the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 930.1, passed - - )
§ 154.04 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In the case of plats of lands lying within the corporate limits of the
city and in which the laying out of new streets is involved, improvements and
utilities described in division (B) below shall have been constructed or
installed prior to the consideration by the Planning and Zoning Commission or
approval of the final or record plat. However, in lieu of the completion of
such improvements the Commission may accept a bond, certified by the City
Attorney, with surety satisfactory to the Commission securing to the city the
actual construction and installation of such improvements or utilities at a
time and according to specifications fixed by the Commission.
   (B)   The character and extent of improvements and utilities to be
constructed or installed in proposed subdivisions are as follows:
      (1)   Streets shall be graded full width.
      (2)   The roadway shall be paved and permanent curbs installed in
accordance with city specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Whenever, in the opinion of the City Engineer, there is within a
reasonable distance sanitary sewer trucks or storm drains, the subdivision
shall be provided with a complete sewerage system which shall connect with such
mains. Where connections with existing mains cannot reasonably be made, the
disposal of sanitary wastes by approved methods shall be provided. The storm
flow may be discharged into natural drainage channels. In general the entire
sewerage system and the disposal of sanitary sewage and storm flow shall be
planned and built to meet the approval of the City Engineer.
      (4)   Water mains with service lines to points beyond the curb shall be
installed where necessary.
   (C)   In case of lands lying within the unincorporated territory and in
which the laying out of streets is involved, the full street width shall be
graded, a serviceable and properly drained roadway surface and permanent curbs
and gutters approved by the County Road Engineer shall be constructed, a water
distribution system shall be installed where public water is available, and in
those subdivisions for the disposal of liquid sanitary wastes by methods
approved by the State Board of Health shall be made prior to consideration by
the Commission of approval of the final or record plat.
(Ord. 930.1, passed - - )
§ 154.05 FINAL PLAT AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Before accepting for approval a final plat of a subdivision which
involves the laying out of new streets, the Commission will require the final
plat be accompanied by a certificate of the City Engineer certifying that all
required improvements have been constructed or installed in a satisfactory
manner or by a performance bond as described in §
154.04. In case the subdivision is located in the unincorporated territory the
certificates of the County Engineer and the State Board of Health certifying to
the satisfactory construction or installation of the necessary improvements
will be required by the Commission before accepting the final plat for
approval. No certificate other than that of the surveyor which must be placed
on the plat is required for subdivisions which do not include the laying out of
new streets or the grading, paving, and installation of water and sewer lines
in streets which shall have acquired the legal status of public streets prior
to the adoption of these regulations.
   (B)   The final plat of the subdivision submitted shall be the one which
will be recorded in the Gallatin County Court Clerk's office and shall clearly
show:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision and the name of the larger tract of which
it forms a part.
      (2)   Names of the subdivisions and the engineer or surveyor.
      (3)   The boundaries of the tract with accurate distances and bearings.
These boundaries shall be determined by an accurate survey in the field which
must be balanced and closed.
      (4)   Street lines of all existing or recorded streets, principal
property lines, patent lines intersecting, crossing, or contiguous to the
subdivision which shall be accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by
distances and bearings.
      (5)   The accurate location and description of all monuments. (Permanent
monuments of natural stone or concrete shall be set at such critical points as
will enable any skilled surveyor to correctly lay out any lot in the
subdivision.)
      (6)   The length and bearings of the lines of all lots, streets, alleys,
and easements as laid out, length of arc, points of curvature, radii, and
tangent bearings in the case of curved lines. The system of lengths and
bearings shall be balanced so as to be consistent throughout and consistent
with the distances and bearings of the boundary lines.
      (7)   All the lots shall be numbered or lettered and all streets shall
bear tentative names.
      (8)   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for
dedication for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon and of all
property that may be reserved by covenant for the common use of the property
owners in the subdivision.
      (9)   Private restriction, if any.
      (10)   North-point, scale, and date. (Whether the north point is magnetic
or true north, shall be indicated.)
      (11)   A certificate by a civil engineer or surveyor licensed under the
provisions of KRS 322.010 et seq., to the effect that the plat represents a
survey made by him and that all of the monuments shown thereon actually exist
and their positions are as shown.
   (C)   After the final plat, together with the necessary certificates
referred to in division (A) above, will have been received by the Planning and
Zoning Commission it will be checked by the Commission as to its conformity
with the preliminary plat as tentatively approved. If found to conform, the
Planning and Zoning Commission will give its final approval to the final plat
and endorse the same thereon. The Secretary of the Commission will then return
the final plat to the subdivider or his agent for recording.
   (D)   The final plat of any portion of a larger subdivision the preliminary
plat of which has been tentatively approved may be submitted for final
approval.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Commission's approval of the final plat shall
not be deemed to constitute or effect an acceptance by the public of any street
or other open space offered for dedication and shown upon the plat.
(Ord. 930.1, passed - - )
§ 154.06 VARIANCES.
   In any specific case where compliance with any provisions of these
regulations may cause practical difficulty, the Planning and Zoning Commission
may vary these provisions where it can be done so as to grant relief and at the
same time protect the public interest.
(Ord. 930.1, passed - - )
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Zoning code adopted by reference
§ 155.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The municipal zoning ordinance, and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully
set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the zoning code are available for public inspection during
normal hours at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Am. Ord. 1994-009, passed 11-14-94; Am. Ord. 1994-010, passed 11-14-94; Am.
Ord. 1996-008, passed 9-9-96; Am. Ord. 1997-017, passed 7-14-97; Am. Ord. 2000-
008, passed 8-14-00; Am. Ord. 2000-0013, passed 12-11-00; Am. Ord. 2001-0011,
passed 2-12-01; Am. Ord. 2002-0001, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 2004-0007, passed
1-10-05; Am. Ord. 2005-0005, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 2006- 01, passed 2-13-06;
Am. Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-13-06; Am. Ord. 2008-09, passed 11-10-08; Am. Ord.
2023-01, passed 1-9-23)
CHAPTER 156: SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   General provisions
   
156.03   Short term rental registration required
   
156.04   Responsible party
   
156.05   General requirements
   
156.06   Maximum occupancy
   
156.07   Maximum rental days
   
156.08   Payment of fees required
   
156.09   Complaints
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Warsaw, Kentucky.
   CITY CLERK. The City of Warsaw City Clerk or his or her designee.
   DWELLING UNIT. A detached single-family dwelling, attached single-family
dwelling, single unit within a multiple-family dwelling, or a single dwelling
in a mobile, modular or manufactured home.
   HOST. Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property who
offers a dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for short term rental.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A website, mobile application, or other online platform
that generally allows an owner or tenant to advertise a dwelling unit and
provide a means for potential transient guests to arrange short term rental and
payment.
   OWNER-OCCUPIED PROPERTY (HOSTED); NON-OCCUPIED HOMES (NON-HOSTED). A parcel
of real property and accompanying dwelling unit in which the title is held by
one or more persons may rent their dwelling for the purposes of short term
rental while they either occupy the property or just own. Renting with the
owner on property shall be known as HOSTED and renting without the owner
present shall be known as NON-HOSTED.
   SHORT TERM RENTAL. A dwelling unit that is rented, leased, or otherwise
assigned for a tenancy of 30 or fewer consecutive days. This term does not
include hotels, motels, extended stay lodging facilities, or bed and breakfast
inns.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. A person or persons who enters into a contractual
arrangement with a host whereby the person or persons pays rent to the host, or
to a person designated by the host to receive rent, including through a hosting
platform, in exchange for occupancy of a short term rental for a period of less
than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective from the passage of this chapter, no person shall rent,
offer for rent, list on any hosting platform, or receive rental income from any
short term rental unless the host has first registered the short term rental in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all short term rentals as defined herein,
including those short term rentals operated prior to the effective date. This
shall include single-family residential dwellings and dwelling units in
otherwise owner-occupied dwellings, including, but not limited to, single-
family residences, condominiums, townhouses, and multi-family dwellings.
   (C)   The provisions herein shall not apply to licensed hotels or motels,
bed and breakfast establishments, jails, convents, monasteries, or nursing
homes.
   (D)   Short term rentals shall be permitted at owner-occupied homes (hosted)
and non-occupied homes (non-hosted).
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.03 SHORT TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of real property that intend to utilize their property as a
short term rental shall obtain a permit from the City Clerk. The owner shall
complete a registration form which shall, at a minimum, include the following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, email address, or any other
pertinent contact information necessary to provide access to the host;
      (2)   The name and contact information of a person residing within 25
miles of the short term rental that shall be responsible for addressing any
safety or maintenance concerns; and
      (3)   The physical address of the short term rental, and unit number, if
applicable.
   (B)   Registrations shall be renewed annually on or before February 1.
   (C)   In order to compensate the city for its costs in administering the
short term rental registration program, all rental properties shall be subject
to an annual registration fee of $50, which shall be paid to by the host to the
city with the host's registration form. New registrations obtained after July 1
of each year shall be prorated to $25 for the remainder of the year.
   (D)   Registration under this chapter is nontransferable. A new owner of a
short term rental property shall file a new registration prior to offering the
property for short term rental.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.04 RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   The host shall be responsible for the short term rental's compliance with
the city's code of ordinances, the city's zoning ordinance, all adopted
building and fire codes, and all other laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following general requirements shall apply to all short term rentals
within the city:
   (A)   Proof of current insurance covering fire, hazards, and general
liability shall be presented annually to the City Clerk with the annual
registration. Liability insurance shall have limits of not less than
$1,000,000. This insurance coverage shall be continuous during periods of short
term rental.
   (B)   Owners of real property who register their property for short term
rental shall notify all adjoining property owners of the registration.
   (C)   All short term rental occupants shall abide by all applicable noise,
nuisance, and waste restrictions of the city.
   (D)   The short term rental unit shall have approved smoke alarms meeting
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) standards in the following locations:
      (1)   All sleeping rooms;
      (2)   Every room in the path of the means of egress from a sleeping area
to the main exit; and
      (3)   Each story, including basements.
   (E)   No food shall be prepared or served by the owner or responsible party
to the transient guests.
   (F)   Contact information for the host shall be conspicuously posted within
the short term rental unit. This shall include names and phone numbers that can
be reached 24 hours per day, seven days per week for the entire duration of the
rental period.
   (G)   A maximum of four homes per city street may be used and/or registered
for short term rentals.
   (H)   A maximum of ten homes per established subdivisions can be used as
short term rental properties.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.06 MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The maximum number of occupants permitted within a short term rental
at any time shall be determined by the number of beds and sleeper sofas, with a
limit of two persons per bed/sleeper sofa. For example, the maximum occupancy
for a short term rental unit with four bedrooms (with four beds) and two
sleeper sofas would be 12.
   (B)   No host shall simultaneously rent to more than one party under
separate contracts.
   (C)   The maximum occupancy permitted by this section shall be conspicuously
posted within the short term rental unit.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.07 MAXIMUM RENTAL DAYS.
   No host shall rent his, her, or its short term rental for more than 240 days
per calendar year. The allocation of days shall be at the discretion of the
host, provided that no short term rental shall be for a period of less than 24
hours.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.08 PAYMENT OF FEES REQUIRED.
   (A)   All hosts shall register with the city prior to listing his, her, or
its property for short term rental.
   (B)   The host shall be responsible for payment of all transient room taxes
and occupational license taxes if applicable at the city, county, state or
federal level.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.09 COMPLAINTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to the administration of complaints
related to the short term rental property:
   (A)   Upon the filing of three or more complaints within the same calendar
year regarding the short term rental unit, the city shall notify the registrant
of such complaints.
   (B)   If the city determines that violations of this section or any other
ordinance or law relating to the short term rental have occurred, the right to
operate the short term rental may be revoked by the City Clerk. Before any
revocation action is taken, the City Clerk shall give the real property owner
seven days written notice of the alleged violations and an opportunity to
respond.
   (C)   The real property owner may appeal the revocation of the short term
rental registration to the Mayor. The Mayor shall reduce his or her decision to
writing.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a provision contained in this chapter of this code of
ordinances is hereby classified as a civil offense, pursuant to KRS §§ 65.8801
through 65.8840 and §§
39.01 through
39.11 of this code.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a civil fine per day for each day the property is in violation of this
chapter according to §
39.08 of this code. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense
without issuance of a separate citation.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property for all civil fines,
penalties, charges, past-due amounts, fees, attorney fees, and all other
reasonable costs associated with enforcing this chapter, and the placing of a
lien on a parcel of real property pursuant to this code. The lien shall be
superior to and have priority over all other liens filed subsequently, except
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (C)   Failure to register property and pay the registration fee in
accordance with this chapter, or revocation, suspension, or denial of said
registration license, may constitute grounds for denial of or revocation of
future registrations with the city for short term rentals.
   (D)   The remedies and penalties provided herein are not to be deemed
exclusive. They shall be in addition to and do not supersede or preempt other
remedies such as condemnation, written violation orders and warnings,
citations, nuisance code violation remedies, and the like. Further, the
remedies herein do not supersede or affect the legal rights and remedies
provided under the law to the tenants vis-a-vis the landlord in any short term
rental dwelling or unit therein.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 1-8-24)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   DEDICATIONS
      
V.   FRANCHISES
      
VI.   VACATIONS
      
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I. ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
110.1 - -    Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the southerly boundary line
             of U.S. 42 where the present western corporation line of the city intercepts.
             Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pipe in the south line of U.S.
110.2 - -    42, a corner to the corporate boundary of the city, then south to a point in
             the line of the property of Gallatin County.
2001- 2-12-  Annexing approximately 105-plus acres of certain property comprising of the
0012  01     Sugar Bay golf course.
2001- 6-11-  Annexing certain property for the approximately 180-plus acres comprising the
0004  01     Blue Heron (J.L Davis) property and the approximately 20 foot by 820 foot strip
             of the adjacent Weldon property.
2007- 7-16-  Annexing certain real estate owned by Smuggler’s Cove, LLC, identified as PVA
05    07     Parcel 008-45, together with the adjoining, connecting and abutting right-of-
             way of U.S. 42.
2010- 9-30-  Annexing approximately 15 acres of real estate owned by RB Management, Inc.,
07    07     identified as PVA Parcel 015-53.02.
2018- 11-12- Annexing a 6.74 acre parcel of real estate owned by Riverside Developers, LLC,
03    18     at 90 US 42 and east of Dorman Products/RB Management, Inc.
            
 
TABLE II. BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1964- 8-14-  Authorizing the issuance of waterworks and sewer revenue bonds.
5     64
1988- 7-11-  Authorizing the issuance of $6,500,000 floating/fixed rate industrial
1     88     building revenue bonds, series 1988 (SDI Operating Partners 1.P. project).
1998-        Authorizing the issuance of $584,000 of the City's Water and Sewer Revenue
002   - -    Bonds, Series 1998C and $388,000 of the City's Water and Sewer Revenue Bonds,
             Series 1998D.
2008- 7-21-  Authorizing the issuance of $307,000 of the city’s Water and Sewer System
05    08     Revenue Bonds, Series 2008, to provide financing for certain additions and
             improvements to the combined water and sewer system.
2008- 7-21-  Authorizing the issuance of the city’s Water and Sewer System Revenue Bond
06    08     Anticipation Notes, Series 2008, to provide financing for certain additions
             and improvements to the combined water and sewer system.
2010- 1-11-  Approving a lease for the financing of a public project in a maximum
01    10     principal amount not to exceed $65,000.
2010- 11-23- Authorizing the issuance of $235,000 principal amount of General Obligation
10    10     Bonds, Series 2010, for financing the acquisition, installation, and
             equipping of a fire truck.
Res.         Authorizing and directing the City Clerk/Treasurer to close out and/or rename
2020- 6-8-20 as necessary the “old” sinking funds and CDs associated with re-paid and
04           refinanced bonds.
2020- - -    Authorizing and providing for the issuance and sale of $488,000 principal
05           amount of City Sewer System Revenue Bonds, Series 2020.
            
 
TABLE III. CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Authorizing the execution of the interlocal cooperation
120.7-1986 7-5-86      agreement under which a pool lease program will be
                       organized.
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
120.7- 7-5-86 Authorizing the execution of the interlocal cooperation agreement under which a
1986          pool lease program will be organized.
Res.   7-28-  Authorizing a contract providing for the sale of water by the city to the
       86     Gallatin County Water District.
221.4  5-11-  Authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement to establish
       87     the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association.
4-22-        Agreement between the city and SDI Operating Partners 1.P. concerning an
88            industrial building project.
221.6  5-9-88 Authorizing the execution of a binding trust participation agreement between
              the city and the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association.
       4-30-  Authorizing the financing by the city of water and sewer improvements; and
- -    92     execution of a lease-purchase agreement between the City of Warsaw Public
              Properties Corporation and the city.
1994-  1-10-  Prescribing regulations for rates charged to cable television subscribers for
003    94     the basic service tier.
1997-         Providing for the implementation of a Gallatin County Public Safety
0021   3-8-99 Communication Center for the County of Gallatin and the Cities of Warsaw,
              Glencoe, and Sparta.
2000-  11-13- Authorizing the city’s properties, streets and alleys to be used by all
0010   00     necessary parties during the construction of both the new water tower and the
              construction of a new city hall.
2001-  3-12-  Agreement to provide for a joint planning commission with the City of Glencoe,
0001   01     Sparta, and County of Gallatin, Kentucky.
2008-  7-14-  Approving contracts and contract amounts for improvements to the city’s water
05     08     system.
2024-  - -24  Authorizing a joint health insurance interlocal agreement
04
2024-  6-10-  Approving the city to join the Northern Kentucky Public Entity Joint Health
05     24     Insurance Board and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Northern Kentucky Public
              Sector Joint Health Insurance Interlocal agreement
             
 
TABLE IV. DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res.     4-4-77      Dedicating the following streets to the public use:
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res.     4-4-77      Dedicating the following streets to the public use:
                   (1) Hendrix Ave. in Finnell Heights Subdivision
                   (2) Weldon's Lane from High School Street to U.S. 42
                   (3) Continuation of 2nd Street from Pearl Street to Mrs.
                     C.V. Raymond property line.
1997-001 1-13-97     Accepting the dedication of streets in Asbury Pointe.
                     Offering for bid a franchise for the erection, laying,
2018-01  4-9-18      operation and maintenance of natural gas transmission and
                     distribution facilities.
                    
 
TABLE V. FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1968-1   11-4-68     Offering for sale a franchise for 20 years to place gas
                     transmission and distribution facilities in the city.
1968-3   12-2-68     Granting a franchise to the Union Light, Heat, and Power
                     Company.
405.5    5-5-80      Awarding a cable IV franchise for 20 years to OVC
                     Telecommunications.
450.4    - -         Awarding a franchise to the Citizens Telephone Company for
                     20 years from August 4, 1969.
1988-3   1-9-89      Granting a franchise to the Union Light, Heat and Power
                     Company.
                     Assignment, assumption and consent, transferring cable
1989-6   6-12-89     television franchise from Central Cable Television Company
                     of Kentucky to Simmons Cable TV of Kentucky Indiana, Inc.
1989-12  12-11-89    Awarding a franchise to Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company
                     for 20 years.
1995-008 5-8-95      Granting a franchise to the Union Light, Heat and Power
                     Company.
2000-004 4-10-00     Granting a franchise to Insight Communications for cable
                     television.
                     Granting a franchise for the erection, laying and
                     maintenance of electric facilities and appurtenant
2015-03  4-13-15     facilities and equipment in, along and across the public
                     ways, roads, streets, alleys and other public places in
                     the city.
                     Granting a franchise for the erection, laying and
                     maintenance of telephone and/or cable television
2015-04  - -         facilities and appurtenant facilities and equipment in,
                     along and across the public ways, roads, streets, alleys
                     and other public places in the city.
2015-08  - -         Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Cincinnati Bell
                     Extended Territories, LLC.
2015-09  - -         Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Cincinnati Bell
                     Extended Territories, LLC.
2015-10  - -         Granting a competitive nonexclusive franchise to Insight
                     Kentucky Partners II, L.P. D/B/A Time Warner Cable.
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
1989-540.8 8-14-89     Closing and vacating Weldon Avenue
                       Closing East Locust and Water Streets east of their
2010-09    12-13-10    intersections with First Street and north of East High
                       Street.
                       Closing portions of Fifth Street, West Locust Street and
2011-08    3-12-12     Water Street, north of U.S. 42 and west of Fourth
                       Street.
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Rezoning the property located on the east side of Brown
                      Street and Dorman Drive (the Dorman factory property) to
1994-008  10-10-94    the eastern city limits to Light Industry. Also rezoning
                      the old gravel pit, the new high school property and part
                      of the Gallatin County fair grounds, exclusive of the old
                      cemetery to R-3/MHP.
1995-009  7-10-95     Rezoning 404, 406 and 414 East High Street from R-3 to R-
                      1.
1995-010  7-10-95     Rezoning the property known as Riverside Square
                      Apartments to R-3.
1996-003  5-13-96     Rezoning 305 through 315 East Main Street from R-1 to
                      CBD.
1997-009  6-2-97      Rezoning 307 West Main Street, 208 West Main Street, and
                      502 East Main Street from R-1 to R- 1/DC.
1997-18   7-28-97     Rezoning 203 West Main Street from R-1 to R-1/DC.
1997-20   10-15-97    Rezoning 716 Sparta Pike from A to R-2 with conditions.
1998-008  11-9-98     Rezoning 506 East Main Street from R-1 to R-1/DC.
1998-010  12-30-98    Rezoning 404 East High Street from R-3 to R-3/DC.
                      Rezoning the Winslow Baker property located on the river
2000-007  8-14-00     side of Locust Street between Main Cross Street and First
                      Street from CD to CBD.
2001-0010 2-12-01     Rezoning certain property as RER.
2001-0005 6-11-01     Rezoning the Blue Heron (J.L. Davis) property as R-3.
2001-0008 12-12-01    Rezoning 414 West Main Street from R-1 to R- 1/DC.
2004-003  7-12-04     Rezoning approximately 3/4 acres of the Meredith Lawrence
                      property located at 107 High Street from R3 to CB.
2006-03   3-13-06     Rezoning the Hollingsworth/Hurst property located at 207
                      West Main Street from R1 to R1-DC.
                      Rezoning property located at 509 East Main Street from
2008-02   4-14-08     Single Family Residential (R-1) to Neighborhood
                      Commercial (NC).
                      Rezoning approximately 15 acres located on the south side
                      of U.S. 42, east of the Dorman Products Facility located
2010-08   10-11-10    at the corner of U.S. 42 and Dorman Drive, from County
                      Residential/ Agricultural to City of Warsaw Light
                      Industrial.
                      Rezoning approximately 0.20 acres located at 500 Main
2013-11   - -         Cross Street and owned by Shirley B. Chipman, from R-
                      1 Single-family Residential to Neighborhood Commercial.
                      Rezoning real estate located at 500 Main Cross Street
2015-06   6-8-15      from Residential One (R- 1) Single-family Zone to
                      Neighborhood Commercial (NC) Zone.
                      Rezoning approximately 18.85 acres located on the south
                      side of US 42, east of the current Dorman Products
2019-01   2-11-19     facility located at the corner of US 52 and Dorman Drive
                      from Residential/Agricultural Zone to Light Industrial
                      (L-1) Zone.
                      Rezoning real estate located at 204 Riverview Drive from
2023-02   - -23       Highway Business (HB) Zone to Residential Three (R-3)
                      Zone.
                      Rezoning approximately 6.8 acres located on Bea Scott
2023-06   8-14-22     Drive, opposite its intersection with Meadowcreek Lane,
                      from Agricultural (A-1) Zone to Multi-Family Residential
                      (R-3) Zone.
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
6.050                   32.48
6.955 - 6.975           33.04
Ch. 13A                 93.02
Ch. 13B                 93.06,
                        116.08
15.409                  34.16
15.410 - 15.520         35.06
15.440(2)               35.06
17.150                  35.06
Ch. 18A                 113.02
18A.225(2)              113.02
Ch. 31                  34.16
41.240(4)               33.06
42.450 - 42.495         33.04
43.050                  33.04
Ch. 45A                 34.16
45A.345 - 45A.460       33.31
45A.365                 33.31
45A.380                 33.27
45A.445 - 45A.460       33.31
45A.455                 33.31
Ch. 56                  34.16
Ch. 61                  32.21
61.168                  34.16
61.169                  34.16
61.870                  34.01
61.870 - 61.882         31.36
61.870 - 61.884         34.17
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.07
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(1) - (3)         34.12
61.874(3), (4)          34.13
61.874(5)               34.14
61.874(6)               34.15
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.16
61.878(1)(b)            33.29
61.880                  34.09
61.880(1)               34.16
61.884                  34.11
62.060                  31.01
65.50 et seq.           116.99
65.120                  72.01
65.8801 - 65.8839       39.02,
                        39.11
65.8801 - 65.8840       156.99
                        50.99,
65.8808                 90.99,
                        92.99,
                        116.99
65.8835                 39.09
66.480                  33.06
66.660                  91.06
68.8811                 39.03
Ch. 83A                 31.20
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02
83A.040(1)              31.21
83A.040(2)              31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.045(2)(b)           31.20
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4),(7)          32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(12),(13)        32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 10.99
83A.065(2)              130.03
83A.070                 31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.03,
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.085                 31.36
83A.090                 10.18
                        10.18,
83A.130                 31.21,
                        31.23
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02
83A.130(3)              31.21
83A.130(4)              31.21
83A.130(5)              32.20
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(8)              31.21
83A.130(9)              31.21
83A.130(10)             31.21
83A.130(11)             32.03,
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             32.03
83A.130(13)             32.03
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.200                 33.11
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
92.310                  110.04
95.740                  35.03
Ch. 107                 33.11
Ch. 116 - 121           31.20
Ch. 118                 31.20
Ch. 121.180             31.20
131.010(6)              113.03
131.190                 34.16
132.285                 36.01
134.800                 36.04
134.810                 36.04
Ch. 136                 36.07
136.120                 114.03
136.602                 114.03
137.410                 110.10
Ch. 151                 152.05
151.250                 152.05
151.280                 152.05
151.310                 152.05
Ch. 154                 34.16
154.20-250 - 154.20-284 114.03
174.100                 91.15
174.100(1)              91.16
174.100(2)              91.17
174.100(4)              91.18
174.100(5)              91.19
174.100(6)              91.20
178.290                 91.06
186.560                 71.25
186A.145                72.22
186A.190                72.22
Ch. 189                 96.04
189.020                 71.27
189.233                 71.05
189.285                 73.02
189.286                 73.15
189.286(1)(a)           73.15
189.286(3)(c)           73.15
189.287                 73.01
189.290                 71.25
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.390(4)              71.06
189.394                 71.99
189.450(5),(6)          72.03
189.580                 71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. - e.  34.01
189.725                 72.08,
                        72.13
189.820                 73.15
189.930                 71.26
189.990(1)              72.99
189.993(8)              71.99
190.010(8)              92.04
198B.070                150.02
198B.990(1)             150.99
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1),(3)          112.99
227.550                 92.04
227.700                 93.01
227.702                 93.01,
                        93.02
227.706                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.03
227.715(1), (6) - (8)   93.03
227.720                 93.04
227.730                 93.05
227.750                 93.06
227.990 (4)             93.99
227.990(1)              150.99
                        116.01,
Ch. 241                 116.07,
                        116.08,
                        116.99
241.030                 116.02
241.200                 116.08
                        116.01,
Ch. 242                 116.07,
                        116.08,
                        116.99
242.185                 116.01,
                        116.02
242.185(3)              116.11
                        114.03,
                        116.01,
Ch. 243                 116.07,
                        116.08,
                        116.99
243.070                 116.03
243.450                 116.06
243.490                 116.07
243.500                 116.07
                        116.01,
Ch. 244                 116.07,
                        116.08,
                        116.99
244.290                 116.11
244.480                 116.11
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
Ch. 258                 90.16
281.011                 92.04
281.920 - 281.936       72.22
281.926                 72.22
281.928                 72.22
281.928(1)              72.22
281.932                 72.22
304.39-080              73.15
318.990                 150.99
322.010 et seq.         154.05
Ch. 350                 152.05
359.230                 72.22
Ch. 376                 33.26
376.275(1)              72.22
376.275(2)              72.22
411.500 - 411.570       Ch. 92
                        32.43,
Ch. 424                 33.04,
                        33.14,
                        33.15
424.220                 33.04
436.600                 90.04,
                        90.99
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
512.020 - 512.030       51.038
525.010                 130.03
525.125                 90.03
525.130                 90.03,
                        90.99
527.020(3)              35.04
532.090(1)              130.03
534.040                 10.99
534.040(2)(a)           130.03
610.200 - 610.280       130.01
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Code Section
4-4-77   T.S.O. IV
7-28-86  T.S.O. III
2008-05  T.S.O. III
2020-04  T.S.O. II
         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.               Date Passed Code Section
                                   33.25 -
                                   33.31,
                                   51.001 -
                                   51.005,
                                   51.015 -
                                   51.039,
                                   51.050,
                                   51.052 -
                                   51.064,
                                   51.085 -
                                   51.098,
-                      3-3-80      51.110 -
                                   51.119,
                                   51.130 -
                                   51.151,
                                   51.165 -
                                   51.174,
                                   51.176,
                                   51.190 -
                                   51.192,
                                   51.194,
                                   51.210 -
                                   51.216,
                                   51.999
-                      4-22-88     T.S.O. III
                                   95.01-
87                     7-11-88     95.14,
                                   95.99
110.1                  - -         T.S.O. I
110.2                  - -         T.S.O. I
110.3                  3-3-80      37.01,
                                   37.99
120.1                  1-4-82      32.21
120.3                  10-8-84     35.03
120.6                  2-11-85     150.01
120.7-1986             7-5-86      T.S.O. III
220.11                 9-10-90     36.01 -
                                   36.03
                                   110.04,
220.7                  6-9-86      110.10,
                                   110.99
220.8                  7-9-90      110.04
221.2                  - -         33.03
221.3                  10-8-84     113.01 -
                                   113.04
221.4                  5-11-87     T.S.O. III
221.5                  8-10-87     151.01
221.6                  5-9-88      T.S.O. III
320.1                  - -         35.04
405.5                  5-5-80      T.S.O. V
450.4                  - -         T.S.O. V
540.3                  7-13-87     72.03,
                                   72.20
540.5                  3-12-90     71.06,
                                   73.99
540.6                  5-9-88      71.05
613.01                 9-12-88     51.051
                                   50.01 -
830.1                  - -         50.05, -
                                   50.07
840.3                  5-13-85     90.17,
                                   90.18
                                   90.15,
840.4                  5-13-85     90.16,
                                   90.19,
                                   90.21
840.5                  7-8-85      50.05
840.6                  9-14-87     90.07,
                                   90.99
840.7                  7-9-90      50.09,
                                   50.99
920.4                  - -         153.01
930-2                  9-11-89     37.02
930.1                  - -         154.01 -
                                   154.06
1964-5                 8-14-64     T.S.O. II
1968-1                 11-4-68     T.S.O. V
1968-3                 12-2-68     T.S.O. V
1978-1                 4-3-78      73.99
1978-3                 7-10-78     92.03
1988-1                 7-11-88     T.S.O. II
1988-3                 1-9-89      T.S.O. V
                                   96.01 -
1989-2                 2-13-89     96.04,
                                   96.99
1989-4                 1-24-89     31.20
1989-6                 5-8-89      150.03
1989-6                 6-12-89     T.S.O. V
1989-12                12-11-89    T.S.O. V
1989-230.2             10-9-89     35.05,
                                   38.01
1989-540.8             8-14-89     T.S.O. VI
220.8                  6-10-91     110.04
1991-613.01 and 613.02 6-10-91     51.051
1991-613._             7-8-91      51.051
1991-613._             7-8-91      51.051
1991-613.02            12-23-91    51.051
- -                    4-30-92     T.S.O. III
1992-72                5-11-92     Ch. 75, Sched. II
1992-10                5-11-92     Adopting Ordinance
1992-110               5-11-92     110.10
50.10                  2-8-93      50.10
1993-91.06-1           6-14-93     91.06
1993-                  10-11-93    Ch. 74, Sched. I
1994-002               2-14-94     153.01,
                                   153.02
1994-003               1-10-94     T.S.O. III
                                   Ch. 74, Sched. V;
1994-004               2-14-94     Ch. 75, Scheds. II,
                                   III
1994-006               6-13-94     Ch. 74, Sched. I
1994-007               8-8-94      Adopting Ordinance
1994-008               10-10-94    T.S.O. VII
1994-009               11-14-94    155.01
1994-010               11-14-94    155.01
1994-011               12-12-94    37.03
                                   Ch. 74 Scheds. I,
                                   III,
1995-001               2-13-95     IV,
                                   VI,
                                   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1995-002               2-13-95     50.10
1995-003               3-13-95     33.06
1995-006               4-10-95     110.10
1995-007               5-8-95      Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1995-008               5-8-95      T.S.O. V
1995-009               7-10-95     T.S.O. VII
1995-010               7-10-95     T.S.O. VII
1995-011               9-11-95     130.02
1995-013               9-11-95     Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1995-015               10-9-95     Ch. 74, Sched. I
1995-016               10-9-95     151.01
1995-017               10-9-95     Ch. 75, Sched. IV
1996-001               4-8-96      50.11
1996-002               5-13-96     130.03
1996-003               5-13-96     T.S.O. VII
1996-004               5-13-96     130.01,
                                   130.99
1996.005               7-8-96      50.11
1996.006               7-8-96      110.10
1996.007               7-8-96      131.01
1996-008               9-9-96      155.01
1996-009               - -         36.07
1996-010               10-14-96    92.15 -
                                   92.25
1996-011               10-14-96    Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1996-012               12-9-96     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1997-001               1-13-97     T.S.O. IV
1997-002               1-13-97     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1997-003               1-13-97     Adopting Ordinance
1997-004               1-13-97     50.10
1997-005               1-13-97     31.02
1997-006               2-10-97     51.051
1997.008               4-14-97     130.01
1997-009               6-2-97      T.S.O. VII
1997-010               5-12-97     72.04,
                                   Ch. 74, Sch. III
1997-011               5-12-97     36.07
1997-12                6-2-97      110.10
1997-00015             6-16-97     110.10
1997-00016             6-16-97     110.10
1997-017               7-14-97     155.01
1997-18                7-28-97     T.S.O. VII
1997-19                9-8-97      36.06
1997-20                9-8-97      T.S.O. VII
1997-21                12-8-97     51.051
1997-0021              3-8-99      T.S.O. III
1998-001               1-12-98     50.10
1998-002               - -         T.S.O. II
1998-003               5-4-98      31.02
1998-004               7-13-98     51.051
1998-005               8-10-98     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
1998-006               9-14-98     36.06
1998-007               10-12-98    51.051
1998-008               11-9-98     T.S.O. VII
1998-009               11-9-98     Ch. 75, Sch. III
1998-010               12-30-98    T.S.O. VII
1999.002               1-19-99     51.051,
                                   110.01
1999.003               3-8-99      31.23
1999-004               3-8-99      51.060
                                   76.01,
1999.008               6-14-99     76.02,
                                   76.99
2000-001               1-10-00     51.051,
                                   51.059
2000-003               3-13-00     153.03
2000-004               4-10-00     T.S.O. V
2000-005               5-8-00      Ch. 74, Sched. IV
2000-007               8-14-00     T.S.O. VII
2000-008               8-14-00     155.01
2000-0009              9-11-00     36.06
2000-0010              11-13-00    T.S.O. III
2000-0011              12-11-00    71.60 -
                                   71.64
2000-0013              12-11-00    155.01
2001-0001              3-12-01     T.S.O. III
2001-0002              6-11-01     Ch. 74, Scheds. III,
                                   IV
2001-0004              6-11-01     T.S.O. I
2001-0005              6-11-01     T.S.O. VII
2001-0006              8-13-01     91.06
2001-0006              8-27-01     36.06
2001-0007              10-8-01     115.01,
                                   115.99
2001-0008              12-10-01    T.S.O. VII
2001-0009              12-10-01    35.07
2001-0010              2-12-01     T.S.O. VII
2001-0011              2-12-01     155.01
2001-0012              2-12-01     T.S.O. I
2002-                  1-1-02      36.06
2002-0001              2-19-02     155.01
2002-0005              6-10-02     Ch. 75, Scheds. II and
                                   III
                                   90.02,
                                   90.07 -
                                   90.12,
2002-0006              8-12-02     90.23 -
                                   90.33,
                                   90.99,
                                   92.04
2002-0008              9-9-02      51.051
2003-0001              3-10-03     51.065
                                   110.09,
2003-0002              5-27-03     110.10,
                                   110.99
2003-0003              9-8-03      36.06
2004-0002              6-14-04     Adopting Ordinance
2004-003               7-12-04     T.S.O. VII
2004-0004              9-13-04     36.06
2004-0005              9-13-04     39.01 -
                                   39.11
2004-0007              1-10-05     155.01
2004-0008              1-10-05     92.99
                                   116.01 -
2005-03                8-8-05      116.12,
                                   116.99
2005-0005              8-8-05      155.01
                                   116.01 -
                                   116.09,
2005-0006              9-12-05     116.11,
                                   116.12,
                                   116.99
2005-0007              9-12-05     116.11
2005-08                8-8-05      76.01
2005-09                9-12-05     36.06
2006-01                2-13-06     155.01
2006-02                2-13-06     155.01
2006-03                3-13-06     T.S.O. VII
2006-04                5-8-06      110.10
2006-08                6-19-06     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2006-09                9-11-06     36.06
2006-10                11-11-06    51.051
2006-11                11-13-06    90.99
2006-12                11-13-06    50.99
2006-13                - -         116.11
2007-01                3-12-07     Adopting Ordinance
2007-03                6-11-07     51.051
2007-05                7-16-07     T.S.O. I
2007-07                8-27-07     36.06
2007-09                12-10-07    51.057,
                                   51.061
2007-10                12-10-07    51.058
                                   152.01 -
                                   152.13,
                                   152.25 -
2008-01                2-11-08     152.27,
                                   152.40 -
                                   152.46,
                                   152.60
2008-02                4-14-08     T.S.O. VII
                                   114.01 -
2008-04                6-9-08      114.12,
                                   114.99
2008-05                7-21-08     T.S.O. II
2008-06                7-21-08     T.S.O. II
2008-07                9-15-08     36.06
2008-08                10-13-08    73.15
2008-09                10-13-08    155.01
2009-02                9-14-09     36.06
2009-03                11-9-09     97.01,
                                   97.02
2010-01                1-11-10     T.S.O. II
2010-06                8-16-10     36.06
2010-07                9-30-10     T.S.O. I
2010-08                10-11-10    T.S.O. VII
2010-09                12-13-10    T.S.O. VI
2010-10                11-23-10    T.S.O. II
2011-01                1-10-11     50.10
2011-03                6-13-11     91.31
2011-05                9-12-11     51.051
2011-06                9-21-11     36.06
2011-07                12-12-11    71.06,
                                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
2011-08                3-12-12     T.S.O. VI
2011-09                1-9-12      51.051
2012-04                6-11-12     35.08
2012-08                7-9-12      Ch. 74, Sched. IV
2012-09                9-10-12     36.06
2012-10                1-14-13     71.27
2013-02                4-8-13      32.21
2013-04                5-13-13     73.15
2013-06                9-9-13      116.03
2013-07                9-9-13      35.05
2013-09                9-23-13     36.06
2013-11                - -         T.S.O. VII
2013-12                11-11-13    Ch. 74, Sched. IV
2014-01                3-10-14     Adopting Ordinance
2014-02                3-10-14     51.051
2014-04                8-11-14     50.10
2014-05                9-8-14      36.06
2015-01                1-12-15     Ch. 74, Sched. I
2015-02                3-9-15      116.03
2015-03                4-13-15     T.S.O. V
2015-04                - -         T.S.O. V
2015-06                6-8-15      T.S.O. VII
2015-07                8-11-15     36.06
2015-08                - -         T.S.O. V
2015-09                - -         T.S.O. V
2015-10                - -         T.S.O. V
2016-02                6-13-16     72.04
2016-03                9-4-16      36.06
2017-02                7-10-17     Adopting Ordinance
2017-03                9-11-17     36.06
2017-04                11-13-17    93.02
2018-01                4-9-18      T.S.O. V
2018-03                11-12-18    T.S.O. I
2018-04                9-10-18     36.06
2019-01                2-11-19     T.S.O. VII
2019-04                9-9-19      98.01 -
                                   98.05
2019-05                9-9-19      116.10
2019-06                9-9-19      36.06
2020-02                6-8-20      35.05
2020-05                - -         T.S.O. II
2020-06                9-16-20     36.06
2021-02                3-8-21      35.05
2021-04                7-12-21     116.10
2021-05                6-14-21     51.051
2021-06                6-14-21     35.05
2021-07                9-13-21     36.06
2022-02                - -22       Adopting Ordinance
2022-03                - -22       116.11
2022-04                9-12-22     116.10
2022-05                8-18-22     36.06
2022-06                12-12-22    35.05
2022-07                1-9-23      50.10
2023-01                1-9-23      155.01
2023-02                - -23       T.S.O. VII
2023-03                - -23       35.05
2023-06                8-14-22     T.S.O. VII
2023-07                9-11-23     36.06
                                   156.01 -
2023-08                1-8-24      156.09,
                                   156.99
2024-01                4-8-24      116.11
2024-02                3-11-24     114.03
2024-04                - -24       T.S.O. III
2024-05                6-10-24     T.S.O. III
2024-06                9-9-24      36.06
2024-07                11-11-24    38.01
                                  
 
 
