WEST POINT, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislaton current through Ordinance 2025-07 passed 8-11-2025
State legislation current through KRS 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance 2023-02
City of West Point, Kentucky
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WEST POINT KY,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the city were
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the city and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Kentucky empower and
authorize the city to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing
ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the City has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the city
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the city that this ordinance takes effect immediately upon
passing.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEST POINT.
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the city as revised, amended, restated,
codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute
the “Code of Ordinances of the CITY OF WEST POINT, KY.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles
         TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the city is hereby authorized
and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have or will be given.
Read at a meeting of the West Point City Council on the 10th Day of April 2023.
The second reading was on May 8, 2023. Said ordinance was passed and approved
on the 8th day of May 2023.
/S/
Richard A Ciresi
Mayor
ATTEST:
/S/
Deena L. Thomas, City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the “West
Point Code,” for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of West Point, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Hardin County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of West Point, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers, marshals,
police officers and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, district or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the Mayor-
Council Plan.
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   City Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.32   Citation Officer
   
31.33   City Engineer
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, see §
119.32
   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, see §
119.06
   Authority for enforcement of traffic code, see §
70.04
   Director of Finance, see §
110.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of
_________________, according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
state, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
Ky. Const. § 228.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and City Council
members with the purchasing power of the dollar, the state’s Finance and
Administration Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every year
the annual increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding
year by using 1949 as the base year in accordance with Ky. Const. § 246, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and City Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per
annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
state’s Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the Personnel and Pay Classification Plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948)
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.
      (1)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, inability or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her office, may be removed
from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City Council exclusive of
any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation of his or her
removal.
      (2)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing.
      (3)   The officer, if removed, has the right to appeal to the circuit
court of the county and the appeal shall be on the record.
      (4)   No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   (1)   All officers and employees of the city who handle public funds
in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the
city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as security
for all money coming into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control.
      (2)   The amount of the bond shall be established based on the amount of
public funds the officer handles at any point in time during the fiscal year
and may be satisfied by a blanket or umbrella bond covering all or a group of
city officers and employees.
      (3)   The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (B) above.
(KRS 65.067) (Prior Code, § 31.04)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS 83A.170 and 83A.175. The
ordinance shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date
prescribed by the election law generally for filing notification and
declaration forms with the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election
is to be held in which any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent
to publication of any ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be
under nonpartisan city election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed
with the Clerk of the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(4), (5)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. His or her term of office begins
on the first day of January following his or her election and shall be for four
years and until his or her successor qualifies.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the City Council
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular meeting of the city’s legislative body
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk/Treasurer and the Secretary of State of
the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the City Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the City Council he or she finds in the public
interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the City Council, the Mayor shall
promulgate procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city
government and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or
upon revision or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the
person responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the City Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   (a)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the City Council, and
the authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer.
         (b)   With approval of the City Council, the Mayor may rescind any
action taken in his or her absence under this section within 30 days of such
action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the City Council and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation of the Mayor shall be set at $5,000
annually.
(Prior Code, § 31.21) (Ord. 2014-01, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 31.17 CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
the City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be
appointed by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by
the City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (2)   Building Inspector;
      (3)   City Engineer; and
      (4)   Flood Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)    Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used; and
      (4)   Performance of any other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02 of this code.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer unless
the person has taken the oath required by Ky. Const. § 228 and has provided
bond in an amount of $5,000, with corporate surety authorized to transact
business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon the performance of the duties
specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.36)
§ 31.32 CITATION OFFICERS.
   (A)   Building Inspector.
      (1)   Qualifications. The Building Inspector shall be 21 years or older
and have been certified by the state’s Department of Building and Housing as a
Certified Building Inspector.
      (2)   Duties.
         (a)   Applications and permits. The Building Inspector shall receive
applications, review construction documents and issue permits for the erection,
alteration and moving of buildings and structures, inspect the premises for
which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions
of this code.
         (b)   Department record. The Building Inspector shall confirm the
keeping of official records of applications received, permits and certificates
issued, fees collected, reports of inspections and notices and orders issued.
Such records shall be retained in the official records for the period required
for retention of public records as promulgated by the state’s Department of
Libraries and Archives pursuant to KRS 171.450.
         (c)   Modifications. Wherever there are practical difficulties
involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the Building Official
shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, upon
application of the owner or owner’s representative, provided the Building
Official shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict
letter of this code impractical and the modification is in compliance with the
intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen
health, accessibility, life and fire safety or structural requirements. The
details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the
files of the city.
         (d)   General. Enforce all tenets of the more current version of the
state’s Building Code.
   (B)   Code Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   Qualifications. The Code Enforcement Officer must be 21 years of
age and have a minimum of three years of experience as a Code Enforcement
Officer, been certified by the state’s Department of Building and Housing as
certified Building Inspector or has 90 days similar experience in the real
estate or building industry.
      (2)   Duties. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be to discover, report
and issue citations for violations of Chapter 96 of this code, to include the
amendment 2001-3 as directed and advise local authority when necessary to file
liens or take civil action to enforce such ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-11-2021; Ord. 2021-02, passed 1-11-2021)
§ 31.33 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The office of City Engineer is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080, and he or she may be removed by the
Mayor at will.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Engineer unless the
person has taken the oath required by Ky. Const. § 228 and has provided a bond
in the sum as established by the City Council, with corporate surety authorized
to transact business in the state and conditioned upon the performance of the
duties specified herein.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall advise the Mayor and the City Council on all
matters related to the maintenance and improvement of streets, alleys and other
public ways, and on matters which may be deemed necessary for the public good,
welfare and convenience, including matters pertaining to sewers and culverts,
and shall perform work and services in connection therewith, as may be assigned
him or her by the City Council.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Engineer shall be in an amount to be
established by the City Council by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.38)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as presiding officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by City Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   Board of Ethics, see §§ 38.055 through 38.063
   Code Enforcement Board, see §§
35.055 through
35.069
   Council members as elected officials, see §
31.17
   Planning Commission, see §§
35.001 through
35.011
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each City Council member shall be elected
at-large by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin
on January 1 following the election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A City Council member shall be at least 21 years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the City Council occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with
the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official's
electronic mail address and includes also the official's handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular meeting of the city’s
legislative body occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk/Treasurer and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on the City
Council is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected City Council. The City Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The City Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties
and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The City Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue
to operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a
budget which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The City Council may investigate all activities of city
government.
      (2)   The City Council may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
      (3)   Any statement required by the City Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the City Council, if any office, department or
agency under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted
or undertaken unless and until written notice of the City Council’s action is
given to the Mayor.
      (4)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the City
Council and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of
any department, office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council. The City
Council has the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one
of its number may be selected to preside at meetings of the City Council in the
absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in City Council proceedings, but shall not
have a vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.20)
Cross-reference:
   City Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside
when there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.16
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second
Monday of every month at 7:00 p.m. at the West Point School Building, 209 North
13th Street.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor
or upon written request of a majority of the City Council.
      (2)   In the call, the Mayor or City Council shall designate the purpose,
time and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance
of City Council members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.31 of this code and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 32.21, passed 4-2-1999; Ord.
2022-05, passed 8-30-2022)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the City Council
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of West Point.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the City Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 of this code shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of
the emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the City Council shall be submitted to the
Mayor who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance
by affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the City
Council together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the City Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto,
upon reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the City Council is hereby made a part of the
permanent records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each
member of the City Council shall be entered on the official record of the
meeting.
   (B)   The City Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31(B) and
32.37 of this code, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent
records of the city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall
sign the official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B) of this code, no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant
to KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another, and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal
orders shall be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting.
      (2)   Orders may be amended only by a subsequent municipal order or
ordinance. All orders adopted shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the City Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CITY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Council members shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. The standards and
procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the City Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall:
      (1)   Contain an explanation of the governmental goals fixed by the
budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important features of the activities
anticipated in the budget;
      (2)   Set forth the reasons for stated changes from the previous year in
program goals, programs and appropriation levels; and
      (3)   Explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The City Council may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the City Council finds
most efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of Ky.
Const. § 157.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The City Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. The responsibility includes the preparation
and submission to the City Council of operating statements, including budgetary
comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has been
adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three months
in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02 of this code.
   (M)   (1)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any
city agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of
money at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency.
      (2)   All contracts, agreements and obligations, express or implied,
beyond such existing appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue
any bond, certificate or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any
way to any extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the
purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Prior Code, § 33.03) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audits shall be completed by February 1, immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. Within ten days of the completion of
the audit and its presentation to the city legislative body, pursuant to
division (B)(6) below, the city shall forward three copies of the audit report
to the state’s Department for Local Government for information purposes. The
Department shall forward one copy of the audit report to the Legislative
Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the general purpose financial
statements of all governmental, proprietary and fiduciary funds of the city;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 through 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with
the annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards, which includes tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying the
general purpose financial statements and his or her opinion and statements
relating thereto;
      (5)   The auditor express an overall opinion as to whether the general
purpose financial statements present fairly the financial condition of the
city, or state the reasons why an overall opinion cannot be expressed;
      (6)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (7)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the auditor of public accounts upon request of the city or the
auditor of public accounts, and the auditor of public accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (D)   Upon completion of an audit, the city may elect to publish the
auditor’s report in accordance with division (E) below, or may publish a
financial statement in accordance with division (F) below. Notwithstanding the
election of divisions (E) or (F) below, the city shall, within 90 days after
the close of the fiscal year, cause to be published in a newspaper qualified
under KRS 424.120 a legal display advertisement of not less than eight column
inches that the statement required by KRS 424.220 has been prepared and that
copies have been provided to each local newspaper of general circulation, each
news service and each local radio or television station which has on file with
the city a written request to be provided such statement.
   (E)   If the city elects to publish the auditor’s report prepared in
accordance with this section in lieu of the financial statement required by KRS
424.220, it shall publish the auditor’s cover letter to the City Council, the
combined balance sheet showing all fund types and account groups, the combined
statement of revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for all
governmental fund types, the combined statement of revenues, expenses and
changes in retained earnings/fund balances for all proprietary fund types and
similar trust funds and the combined statement of changes in financial position
for all proprietary fund types and similar trust funds in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424. The advertisement shall contain a statement that a copy of the
complete auditor’s report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, are on file at City Hall and are available for public inspection
during normal business hours. The advertisement shall also contain a statement
that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of the complete auditor’s
report, including financial statements and supplemental information, for his or
her personal use. The statement shall notify citizens requesting a personal
copy of the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs
at a rate that shall not exceed $0.25 per page. In addition, the advertisement
shall contain a statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)   If the city elects to publish the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 in lieu of publishing the auditor’s report, it
shall, within 60 days after the completion of the audit, publish the statement
in accordance with KRS Chapter 424.
   (G)   The city may utilize the alternative publication methods authorized by
KRS 424.190(2) to comply with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   (1)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which
the city is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in
a manner authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories.
      (2)   All city funds shall be disbursed by written authorization approved
by the Mayor which states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the
purpose of the payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each
authorization shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the City Council of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis and square foot basis or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received and
other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   (A)   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits
received basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization.
   (B)   The City Council may assess the property in the same manner as for
privately owned property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general
revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23 of this code, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the
proposed improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 of this code and a description of all properties.
   (B)   Promptly upon passage, the city shall publish the ordinance pursuant
to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified mail to each affected property
owner a notice of determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of
assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner and the
ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire
project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25 of this code, any affected property owner may file an action in the
circuit court of the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by
special assessment, the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement or
the amount of his or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of
the improvement by the special assessment method of the inclusion of the
property of that property owner, no further action on the improvement insofar
as it relates to any property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the
final judgment has been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section, or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to property
owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse of time
as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26 of this code, or after favorable final judgment in any action, whichever
comes later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed
by the action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or
installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the
improvement. The first installment may be apportioned so that other payments
will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   (1)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof
on any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on
the property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of
financing of the improvement.
      (2)   The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether created
prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a lien for
state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement taxes,
and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners.
      (3)   No error in the proceedings of the City Council shall exempt any
benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or from
payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 of this code applies if additional property is included in the
improvement or if change is made in the method or period of financing; but
additional property may be included in the improvement with the consent of the
owner thereof without compliance with other sections if it does not increase
the cost apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made
without such compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all
proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident
bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, claims settlement by the parties to such action or the
attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of the city shall
be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.26 of this code.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) (Prior Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of his or her decision. Any agency response denying, in whole
or in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian, or under his or her authority, and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26 of this code.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26 of this code. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a
written request and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage
where appropriate. If the applicant desires copies of public records other than
written records, the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or
permit the applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall
ensure that the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1), (2)) (Prior Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4)) (Prior Code, § 34.13)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23 of this code;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23 of this code.
(KRS 61.874(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.15)
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information could pose an articulable risk of harm to the agency or its
investigation by revealing the identity of informants or witnesses not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this subchapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation; and
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the non-excepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18 of this code.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. The records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878) (Prior Code, § 34.16)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 34.17)
CHAPTER 35: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
35.001   Definitions
   
35.002   Establishment
   
35.003   Powers, duties and functions
   
35.004   Members
   
35.005   Officers
   
35.006   Meetings
   
35.007   Bylaws; transcript
   
35.008   Quorum
   
35.009   Hearing examiner
   
35.010   Employment of staff or contractors
   
35.011   Expenditures
Police Department
   
35.025   Establishment
   
35.026   Police Chief; police officers
   
35.027   Adopt a standard operations procedures manual
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.040   Establishment
   
35.041   Fire Chief; Assistant Fire Chief
   
35.042   Fees charged to nonresidents for Fire Department services
Code Enforcement Board
   
35.055   Definitions
   
35.056   Creation and membership
   
35.057   Enforcement powers
   
35.058   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
35.059   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
35.060   Conflict of interest
   
35.061   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
35.062   Enforcement proceedings
   
35.063   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
35.064   Presentation of cases
   
35.065   Appeals; final judgment
   
35.066   Fine schedule; lien; charges and fees
   
35.067   Lienholder notification system
   
35.068   Liens
   
35.069   Immediate action
West Point Revitalization Committee
   
35.080   The West Point Revitalization Committee established
Fort Duffield Heritage Committee
   
35.095   The Fort Duffield Heritage Committee established
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Adjustment, see §
152.097
   Personnel Board, see §§
Chapter 37
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 35.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAIRPERSON. The citizen member of the Planning Commission elected by the
members of the Planning Commission to serve in the capacity of CHAIRPERSON.
   CITIZEN MEMBER. Any member of the Planning Commission who is not an elected
or appointed public official or employee of the city.
   ELECTED PUBLIC OFFICIAL. A member of the Planning Commission who
simultaneously holds a position to which he or she was elected by the citizens.
   MEMBER. Any person duly appointed and acting as a member of the Planning
Commission.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The seven-member body authorized by this subchapter to
formulate plans for the physical development and social and economic well-being
of the city and which shall formulate proposals for implementing such plans and
shall have the powers granted to it by KRS Chapter 100.
   TRANSCRIPT. For purposes of meetings, shall be the record maintained of the
proceedings indicating the business transacted at the meetings and shall not be
required to be a verbatim record. The TRANSCRIPT of a public hearing shall be a
verbatim record of the evidence and arguments made to the Planning Commission
or its designated hearing officer and the record shall be taken by any person
authorized to take a record under the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.002 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Planning Commission is hereby established and shall continue in full
force and existence unless dissolved by further action of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 35.003 POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The City Council or Mayor may assign to the Planning Commission any powers,
duties and functions relating to urban renewal or public housing.
(Prior Code, § 35.03)
§ 35.004 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. Each member
must be a resident of the city. One of the seven members may be an elected
public official of the city.
   (B)   Each member shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City
Council.
   (C)   The term of office for each citizen member of the Planning Commission
shall be four years, but the term of office of citizen members first appointed
shall be staggered so that a proportionate number serve one, two, three and
four years respectively, and later appointments or reappointments shall
continue the staggered pattern. Of those first appointed, the first member
appointed shall serve a term of four years; the second member appointed shall
serve a term of three years; the third member appointed shall serve a term of
two years; the fourth member appointed shall serve a term of one year; the
fifth member appointed shall serve a term of four years; the sixth member
appointed shall serve a term of three years; the seventh member appointed shall
serve a term of two years. The term of office of all elected public officials
appointed to the Planning Commission shall be the same as their tenure in
office.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Planning Commission shall be filled within 60 days by
the Mayor. If the Mayor fails to act within that time, the Planning Commission
shall fill the vacancy. When a vacancy occurs, other than through expiration of
the term of office, it shall be filled for the remainder of that term.
   (E)   Any member of the Planning Commission may be removed by the Mayor for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or conflict of interest. When the
Mayor exercises the power to remove a member of the Planning Commission, he or
she shall submit a written statement to the Planning Commission setting forth
the reasons for removal, and the statement shall be read at the next general
meeting of the Planning Commission which shall be open to the general public.
The member so removed shall have the right of appeal in the Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 35.04)
§ 35.005 OFFICERS.
   The Planning Commission on an annual basis shall elect a Chairperson and any
other officers which it deems necessary from the citizen members of the
Planning Commission. All officers shall be eligible for re-election at the
expiration of the term provided they continue as members of the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 35.05)
§ 35.006 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall conduct regular meetings as it deems
necessary for the transaction of its business, but there shall be at least six
regular meetings annually. The schedule for regular meetings shall be expressed
in the rules and regulations of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Special meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson who
shall give written or oral notice to all members at least seven days prior to
the meeting; which notice shall contain the date, time, place and the subjects
which shall be discussed.
(Prior Code, § 35.06)
§ 35.007 BYLAWS; TRANSCRIPT.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transactions of
business and shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings including
regulations, transactions, findings, determinations, the number of votes for
and against each question and if any member is absent or disqualified from
voting, the minutes and records shall indicate that fact.
   (B)   All minutes and records shall immediately after adoption be filed in
the office of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   A transcript of the entire proceedings of a Planning Commission
meeting shall be provided, if requested by a party, at the expense of the
requesting party and the transcript shall constitute the record.
(Prior Code, § 35.07)
§ 35.008 QUORUM.
   A simple majority of the total membership of the Planning Commission as
established by this subchapter shall constitute a quorum. Any member of the
Planning Commission who has any direct or indirect financial interest in the
outcome of any question before the Planning Commission shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on
the question, and he or she shall not be counted for the purpose of a quorum. A
simple majority vote of all members present where there is a properly
constituted quorum shall be necessary to transact any official business, except
that a vote of a simple majority of the total membership shall be necessary for
the adoption or amendment of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 35.08)
§ 35.009 HEARING EXAMINER.
   The Planning Commission may appoint one or more of its members to act as a
hearing examiner or examiners or preside over a public hearing and make
recommendations to the Planning Commission based upon a transcript of record of
the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 35.09)
§ 35.010 EMPLOYMENT OF STAFF OR CONTRACTORS.
   The Planning Commission may employ a staff or contract with planners or
other persons as it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties under
this subchapter, provided that its operations expense does not exceed the
Planning Commission’s budget.
(Prior Code, § 35.10)
§ 35.011 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The City Council may appropriate out of general revenues for the
expenses and accommodations necessary for the work of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall have the right to receive, hold and
spend funds which it may legally receive from any and every source both in and
out of the commonwealth, including the United States Government, for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   All bylaws shall describe the method for administration of funds.
   (D)   An annual audit shall be performed of all receipts, expenditures and
funds on hand, by the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office or by an accountant. The
audit report, including financial statements, shall be kept in the same manner
prescribed for other records.
(Prior Code, § 35.11)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.025 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.50)
§ 35.026 POLICE CHIEF; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, regular
police officers and those personnel as may be established by the City Council.
   (B)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will, and may be removed by the Mayor at will except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Police Chief unless the
person has taken the oath required by Ky. Const. § 228, and has provided a
bond, if required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the
commonwealth and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified
herein and with the qualifications set forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of education,
training and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
   (E)   Subject to the authority of the Mayor, the Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the organization and operation of the Police Department of the
city, and shall supervise, direct and control the equipment and personnel
thereof in the enforcement of all statutes, laws and ordinances of the city.
   (F)   The compensation of the Police Chief and all police officers shall be
in an amount to be established by the City Council by ordinance in accordance
with §
31.02 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 35.51)
§ 35.027 ADOPT A STANDARD OPERATIONS PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   The City Council, by municipal order, adopts and orders the practices of the
West Police standard operations procedures manual (SOP), so designated and on
file with the Police Chief. The city’s Police Department prepared this Policy
and Procedure Manual.
(Mun. Ord. 2009-03, passed 7-13-2009)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.040 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established in the city, to be known as the
“West Point Volunteer Fire Department.”
(Prior Code, § 35.65)
§ 35.041 FIRE CHIEF; ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The positions of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief are hereby
established.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and the Assistant Fire Chief shall be elected by the
members of the Department with the approval of the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall operate pursuant to rules and
regulations promulgated by the Volunteer Fire Department and approved by the
Mayor and the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.66)
§ 35.042 FEES CHARGED TO NONRESIDENTS FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall collect fees for the Fire Department
services to nonresidents of the city as follows.
      (1)   The city shall collect a fee of $500 for the first hour and any
portion thereof when the Fire Department responds to a call. This fee includes
any and all vehicles and manpower within that first hour, regardless of the
number of vehicles and personnel responding to the call.
      (2)   After the first hour, the city shall collect a fee of $100 per hour
for each fire engine that responds to the call.
      (3)   After the first hour, the city shall collect a fee of $50 per hour
for any other emergency vehicles that respond to the fire call. For purposes of
this section, “other emergency vehicles” include command cars and personnel and
rehabilitation vehicles.
      (4)   After the first hour, the city shall collect a fee of $20 per hour
per firefighter that responds to the call.
   (B)   The above fees shall be binding upon all persons receiving the
services as well as their successors in interest, assigns, estates and heirs.
   (C)   The city may enforce the provisions of this section by civil actions
in court for the collection of amounts due or other appropriate relief.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall authorize any city department or city
personnel to refuse or delay any service to any person, firm or corporation
that has not paid for service or that owes for previous service.
   (E)   Failure to receive payment within 30 days from the bill date
constitutes a delinquent account and is subject to a 10% late fee and interest
shall be imposed at a rate of 12% per annum for any delinquent account.
(Prior Code, § 35.67)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 35.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs and associated with
clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a portion of
a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a structure
or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and preserve the
public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
35.063(E) of this chapter;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
35.062(F) of this chapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
35.063(C) of this chapter.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition, which is likely to cause serious, or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.056 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than
three members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at
least one year prior to their appointment and shall reside there throughout the
term in office.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.057 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   the Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.058 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the-approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year.
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   A board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.059 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held semi-
annually on the third Monday of January and July. Meetings other than those
regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in
accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.060 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the
matter in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.061 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The city’s Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this subchapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairperson shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision, which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.062 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
35.069 of this subchapter. If a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his
or her personal observation or investigation that a person has violated a city
ordinance, he or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged
violator a specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a
fine. If the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within
the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a
citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (l)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (l)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
owner, occupant, agent or other;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the Chairperson.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in wring, a hearing to contest the citation. If the person
fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation as issued
shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first- class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.063 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set by the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first- class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by ordinance
or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a fine, or
both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 35.064 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.065 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
35.063(E) of this subchapter may be made to the Hardin County District Court
within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated
by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner
as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) of this section, the Code
Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.066 FINE SCHEDULE; LIEN; CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city’s Code
Enforcement Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines.
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the penalties shall refer to §
96.99.
      (2)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, maximum penalties will refer to the current
maximum penalty section of the §
96.99.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined in §
35.055, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to §
35.068, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (B) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees
and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall
have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 35.067 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in § 35.066, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk/Treasurer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city website
to submit the information required by division (B) of this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once per week, the city shall send electronic mail notification of all
final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city’s website. The database shall include the
following information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
subchapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D)
above containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the city’s
website.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.068 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
35.067(B) of this subchapter may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
35.067(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action, if necessary, under §
35.069 of this subchapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by § 35.066 of this subchapter shall not take
precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
35.067 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section .
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the
County Clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
35.067 and
35.068 of this subchapter or failure of a lien to take precedence over
previously filed liens as provided in division (C) of this section, shall not
limit or restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the
violator.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 35.069 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-10-2022)
WEST POINT REVITALIZATION COMMITTEE
§ 35.080 THE WEST POINT REVITALIZATION COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Council desires to affirm a standing committee of volunteers
to promote the general welfare of its citizens, increase tourism, promote and
accomplish projects for the beautification of the city and any other effort
assigned or created for the enhancement and/or improvement of the city.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the West Point Revitalization Committee will be
appointed by the Mayor and serve continually unless removed or resigned.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the West Point Revitalization Committee will
appoint additional members and subcommittees as is necessary to accomplish
these tasks.
   (D)   The West Point Revitalization Committee is hereby established, with
recognition and appreciation for all efforts and projects performed on the
city’s behalf prior to the order from which this subchapter was derived.
(Mun. Ord. 2021-01, passed 8-9-2021)
FORT DUFFIELD HERITAGE COMMITTEE
§ 35.095 THE FORT DUFFIELD HERITAGE COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Council desires to recognize and formalize a committee
originally established in 1992 without formal standing.
   (B)   The City Council desires to recognize this standing committee of
volunteers to promote, maintain and improve the grounds and enhance the visitor
experience at Fort Duffield.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Fort Duffield Heritage Committee shall be
appointed by the Mayor and serve continually unless removed or resigned.
   (D)   The Chairperson of the Fort Duffield Heritage Committee shall appoint
additional members and subcommittees as is necessary to accomplish these tasks.
   (E)   The Fort Duffield Heritage Committee is hereby established, with
recognition and appreciation for all previous efforts and projects performed on
the city’s behalf.
(Mun. Ord. 2021-02, passed 8-9-2021)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   County assessment adopted
   
36.02   Due date; payment
   
36.03   Delinquency
   
36.04   Ad valorem taxes
   
36.05   Disposition of funds
Cross-reference:
   Finance and revenue, see
Chapter 33
§ 36.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual county assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Prior Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on September 1 of each year.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes before November 1 after
they become due shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the Clerk/
Treasurer shall allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 36.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January l following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% per annum until paid. In addition, interest in the
amount of 10% of the tax due shall be added to the bill for every month or
fraction thereof from January 1 until the date of payment.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by home rule cities.
(Prior Code, § 36.03)
§ 36.04 AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   For the purposes of support of the government of the city and the
payment of its debts and expenses, there has been and hereby levied ad valorem
taxes on each $100 of the Fiscal Year 2024 assessed valuation of all taxable
property within the taxing jurisdiction of the city as follows: Real property
and personal property (personal property includes inventory, furniture and
fixtures of business, including inventory held for resale and privately owned
registered vehicles), including real and personal property of public service
companies on the Department of Revenue assessed valuation.
 
Expense Type      Tax
Bank deposit tax  .00025
Personal property .290
Real property     .350
 
   (B)   (1)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
      (2)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent
as set forth in KRS 134.810 and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 2022-06, passed 8-30-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 9-
26-2023)
§ 36.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All moneys collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 36.05)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Personnel policy.
§ 37.01 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The personnel policy for the city will be established by municipal order and
be reviewed by the City Council annually prior to approving the annual budget.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-11-2022) (Mun. Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.001   Definitions
Standard of Conduct
   
38.015   Conflicts of interest
   
38.016   Conflict of interests in contracts
   
38.017   Withdrawal from participation
   
38.018   Receipt of gifts
   
38.019   Use of city or county resources
   
38.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.021   Political solicitation
   
38.022   Patronage
   
38.023   Honoraria
   
38.024   Endorsements
   
38.025   Complicity with or knowledge of other’s violations
   
38.026   Meeting attendance
Financial Disclosure
   
38.035   Who must file
   
38.036   When to file; amended statement
   
38.037   Financial statement form
   
38.038   Control of financial statements
   
38.039   Content of financial statement
   
38.040   Non-compliance with filing
   
38.041   Public viewing
   
38.042   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38.055   County Board of Ethics
   
38.056   Training and education
   
38.057   Annual reports and review
   
38.058   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.059   Hearings
   
38.060   Appeals
   
38.061   Limitations of actions
   
38.062   Advisory opinions
   
38.063   Prohibited conduct against those who disclose violations
 
   
38.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policies, see
Chapter 37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The County Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city's
and county's Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint-stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city or
county office. An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a
notification and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a
declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State.
   CITY. The Cities of Elizabethtown, Radcliff, Vine Grove and West Point,
Kentucky.
   CITY or COUNTY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock
corporation or other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the
city or county.
   COUNTY BUSINESS. Any discussion of specific county issues that goes beyond
general information.
   CLERK. The administrative official designated as the custodian of its
records by the county's Board of Ethics which shall be the Hardin County Court
Clerk unless the Hardin County Court Clerk disqualifies in any matter pending
before the Board of Ethics in writing to the Chairperson of the Board of
Ethics. Such disqualification shall be mandatory in any Board of Ethics matter
directly involving the Hardin County Clerk and shall be permissive in any Board
of Ethics matter directly involving a county elected official, county appointed
official or county employee. In the event of such disqualification, the
Chairperson of the Board of Ethics shall appoint one of the City Clerks to act
as custodian of records for the matter.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Information obtained in the course of holding
public office or employment, or as a contractor to the county which is not
available to members of the public and which the officer or employee is not
authorized to disclose except to designated individuals or bodies, including
written and non-written information. When such information is also available
through channels open to the public, officers and employees are not prohibited
from disclosing the availability of those channels.
   CONSULTANT. An independent contractor, professional person, or entity
engaged by the county or advising a county officer, and in a position to
influence a county decision or action or having access to confidential
information.
   COUNTY. Hardin County, Kentucky.
   DOMESTIC PARTNER. An adult, unrelated by blood, with whom an unmarried or
separated officer or employee has an exclusive committed relationship,
maintains a mutual residence, and shares basic living expenses.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full time or part time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city or county. The term
EMPLOYEE shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their
employees.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, domestic partner, and whether by blood,
adoption, marriage, guardianship, or domestic partnership, an unemancipated
child residing in the officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by
the officer or employee or the officer's or employee's spouse as a dependent
for tax purposes.
   FINANCIAL BENEFIT. Includes any money, service, license, permit, contract,
authorization, loan, discount, travel, entertainment, hospitality, gratuity,
any promise of any of these, or anything else of value. This term does not
include legal campaign contributions.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. A relationship to something where a direct or indirect
financial benefit has been or reasonably will be received as a result of the
relationship.
   HOUSEHOLD. Includes anyone whose primary residence is in the officer's or
employee's home, including non-relatives who are not paying rent, or staff.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The legislative body member;
      (3)   County Clerk;
      (4)   Circuit Court Clerk;
      (5)   County Attorney;
      (6)   Jailer;
      (7)   Coroner;
      (8)   Surveyor;
      (9)   Constable;
      (10)   Sheriff;
      (11)   County Judge Executive;
      (12)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (13)   Property Valuation Administrator.
   OFFICIAL ACT. Any legislative, administrative, appointive, or discretionary
act of any public official or employee of the county or any agency, board,
committee, or commission thereof.
   PERSONAL BENEFIT. Includes benefits other than those that are directly
financially advantageous. These include financial benefits to immediate family
members, business associates, as well as non-financial benefits to these people
and to oneself.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. A relationship to something where a personal benefit has
been, will be, or might be obtained by certain action or inaction with respect
to it.
   SUBORDINATE. Another official or employee over whose activities an official
or employee has direction, supervision, or control.
   TRANSACTION. Any matter, including but not limited to contracts, work,
business with the county, the sale or purchase of real estate by the county,
and any request for zoning amendments, variances, or special permits pending
before the county, upon which a public officer or employee performs an official
act or action.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
STANDARD OF CONDUCT
§ 38.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Every officer and employee of the city and county shall comply with the
following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer, employee, board or commission member, nor any immediate
family member of any officer, employee or board or commission member, shall
have an interest in a business or engage in any business, transaction or
activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the
officer's, employee's, board or commission member's public duties.
   (B)   No officer, employee, board or commission member shall intentionally
use or attempt to use his or her official position with the city or county to
secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No city or county government officer, employee, board or commission
member shall act in his or her official capacity in any matter where he or she,
a member of his or her immediate family or a business organization in which he
or she has an interest, has a direct or indirect financial or personal
involvement that might reasonably be expected to impair his or her objectivity
or independence of judgment.
   (D)   No city or county government officer, employee, board or commission
member shall undertake any employment or service, compensated or not, which
might reasonably be expected to prejudice his or her independence of judgment
in the exercise of his or her official duties.
   (E)   Every officer, employee, board or commission member who has a
prohibited financial interest which the officer, employee, board or commission
member believes or has reason to believe may be affected by his or her
participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the scope of his or
her public duties shall disclose the interest to the governing body of the city
or county or city or county agency served by the officer, employee, board or
commission member and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record of
the proceedings of the governing body. The officer, employee, board or
commission member shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the
matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
   (F)   No city or county government officer, employee, board or commission
member or member of his or her immediate family, or business organization in
which he has an interest, shall solicit or accept any gift, favor, loan,
political contribution, service, promise of future employment, or other thing
of value based upon an understanding that the gift, favor, loan, contribution,
service, promise or other thing of value was given or offered for the purpose
of influencing him or her, directly or indirectly, in the discharge of his or
her official duties. This provision shall not apply to the solicitation or
acceptance of contributions to the campaign of an announced candidate for
elective public office of government by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (G)   No city or county government officer, employee, board or commission
member shall be prohibited from giving or receiving an award publicly presented
in recognition of public service, or reasonable hosting, including travel and
expenses, entertainment, meals or refreshments furnished in connection with
public events, appearances, ceremonies or fact-finding trips related to
official city or county government business, or commercially reasonable loans
made in the ordinary course of a lender's business.
   (H)   No city or county government officer shall be prohibited from
accepting a gratuity for solemnizing a marriage.
   (I)   No city or county government officer, employee, board or commission
member, or business organization in which he or she has an interest shall
represent any person or party other than the local government in connection
with any cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending before any
agency in the local government in which he or she serves.
   (J)   No city or county government officer shall be deemed in conflict with
these provisions if, by reason of his or her participation in the enactment of
any ordinance, resolution or other matter required to be voted upon or which is
subject to executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain accrues to
him or her as a member of any business, profession, occupation or group, to any
greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of such business, profession, occupation or group.
   (K)   No elected city or county government officer shall be prohibited from
making an inquiry for information or providing assistance on behalf of a
constituent, if no fee, reward or other thing of value is promised to, given to
or accepted by the officer or a member of his or her immediate family, whether
directly or indirectly, in return therefor.
   (L)   Nothing shall prohibit any city or county government officer,
employee, board or commission member or members of his or her immediate family,
from representing himself, herself or themselves, in negotiations or
proceedings concerning his, her or their own interests.
   (M)   No officer, employee, board or commission member shall be deemed in
violation of any provision of this section it by reason of the officer's,
employee's, board or commission member's participation, vote, decision, action
or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer, employee, board or
commission member, a family member, an outside employer or a business in which
the officer, employee, board or commission member, or any family member has a
financial interest, or any business with which the officer, employee, board or
commission member, or any family member is negotiating or seeking prospective
employment, or other business or professional relationship, as a member of any
business, occupation, profession or other group, to any greater extent than any
gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession or other group.
(Prior Code, § 38.15) (Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.016 CONFLICT OF INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee, board or commission member of the city or county
shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or
in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or
county, or a city or county agency, except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in (A) above shall not apply to contracts entered
into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city or county office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or county, or city or
county agency office, or before an employee was hired by the city or county, or
city or county agency. However, if any contract entered into by a city or
county, or city or county agency officer, employee, board or commission member,
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   (a)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer, employee, board or commission member is authorized to participate in
establishing the contract specifications, awarding the contract or managing
contract performance after the contract is awarded.
         (b)   If the officer, employee, board or commission member has any of
the authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer,
employee, board or commission member shall have no interest in the contract,
unless the requirements set forth below are also satisfied:
            1.   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's, employee's, board or commission member's interest in the
contract are publicly disclosed at a meeting of the governing body of the city
or county, or city or county agency and refrain from participating in voting;
            2.   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or county, or city or county agency before the
contract is executed;
            3.   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or county,
or city or county agency that the contract with the officer, employee, board or
commission member is in the best interest of the public and the city or county,
or city or county agency because of price, limited supply or other specific
reasons; and
            4.   The finding is made as part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or county or city or county agency before the
contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall result in a civil fine payable to
the Commission not to exceed $500. Additionally, a violation of this section
shall be grounds for a recommendation of removal from office or employment with
the city or county in accordance with any applicable provisions of state law
and ordinances, rules or regulations of the city or county.
(Prior Code, § 38.16) (Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.017 WITHDRAWAL FOM PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   An officer or employee must refrain from acting on or discussing,
formally or informally, a matter before the city or county, if acting on the
matter or failing to act on the matter may personally or financially benefit
the officer, employee or a member of the officer or employee's immediate family
member as defined in this chapter. Such officer or employee should leave the
room if it is a public meeting conducted under KRS 61.810 and KRS 61.815.
   (B)   Withdrawal at a meeting requires public announcement, on the record,
of the reason for withdrawal.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.018 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee, board or commission member of the city or
county, or any city or county agency shall directly or indirectly through any
other person or business, solicit or accept any gift having a fair market value
of more than $200, whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel,
entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the
officer, employee, board or commission member in the performance of his or her
public duties.
   (B)   Certain items are typically excluded from the prohibition. Examples of
these items include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Gifts received from family members;
      (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the county and transferred to the
county;
      (3)   Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food, beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development
activities, or fact-finding trips related to official government business;
      (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business;
      (5)   Awards, including certificates, plaques, and commemorative tokens
presented in recognition of public service; or
      (6)   Informational, promotional, and educational items.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.019 USE OF CITY OR COUNTY RESOURCES.
   No officer, employee, board or commission member of the city or county shall
use or permit the use of any city or county time, funds, personnel, equipment
or other personal or real property for the private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city or county policy;
or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer, employee, board or commission member of the city or county
or any city or county agency shall intentionally use or disclose information
acquired in the course of his or her official duties, if the primary purpose of
the use or disclosure is to further his or her personal financial interest or
that of another person or business.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the state's Open Records Law, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at
the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.021 POLITICAL SOLICITATION.
   (A)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not request or
authorize anyone else to request that any subordinate or potential future
subordinate, participate or not participate in any political activity,
including the making of a campaign contribution.
   (B)   An officer, employee, or municipal candidate may not engage in any
political activity for the county while on duty, in uniform, using county
funds, supplies, vehicles, or facilities during any period of time during which
they are normally expected to perform services for the county for which
compensation is paid.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.022 PATRONAGE.
   No officer or employee may promise an appointment or use their influence to
obtain an appointment to any position as a reward for any political activity or
contribution.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.023 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer, employee, board or commission member of the city or county
or a city or county agency shall accept any compensation, honorarium or gift
with a fair market value greater than $200 in consideration of an appearance,
speech or article unless the appearance, speech or article is both related to
the officer's, employee's, board or commission member's activities outside of
government service and is unrelated to the officer's, employee's, board or
commission member's service with the city or county.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer, employee, board or
commission member of the city or county from receiving and retaining from the
city or county or on behalf of the city or county actual and reasonable out-of-
pocket expenses incurred by the officer, employee, board or commission member
in connection with an appearance, speech or article, provided that the officer,
employee, board or commission member can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or county, or
city or county agency, and primarily for the benefit of the city or county and
not primarily for the benefit of the officer, employee, board or commission
member or any other person.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.024 ENDORSEMENTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee in their official capacity may publicly endorse
products or services for their own personal or financial interest or for their
family member's personal or financial interest.
   (B)   However, this does not prohibit an officer or employee from answering
inquiries by other governmental officials, consumer organizations, or product
information services regarding products or services.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.025 COMPLICITY WITH OR KNOWLEDGE OF OTHER’S VIOLATIONS.
   No officer or employee may directly or indirectly induce, encourage, or aid
anyone to violate any provision of this code. If an officer or employee knows
or has reasonable suspicion to believe that someone has violated this code,
they are required to report it to the ethics board pursuant to this chapter
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.026 MEETINGS ATTENDANCE.
   All elected county officers and members of county boards and commissions are
expected to attend their meetings. It is a violation of this code to miss more
than one third (33%) of the meetings in a 12-month period, absent a valid
reason.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the
Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city and county officials; and
   (B)   Candidates for elected city and county office.
(Prior Code, § 38.35) (Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.036 WHEN TO FILE; AMENDED STATEMENT.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated in writing as the custodian of its records, no later than 4:00 p.m.
on April 15, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be
filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on April 15 each year; provided that:
      (1)   A newly appointed officer shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city or county office shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city or county office. A write-in candidate shall file
within 24 hours from the date of the filing of his or her affidavit for write-
in candidacy.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of the time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board of Ethics, the
officer, employee, board or commission member shall, no later than one year
after becoming aware of material change, file an amended statement with the
Board of Ethics.
(Prior Code, § 38.36) (Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.037 FINANCIAL STATEMENT FORM.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics, along with the Clerk, will annually review the
list of officials and employees required to file annual disclosure statements
to determine whether the lists are complete and accurate. Within 90 days after
it has been formed, and by February 1 each year thereafter, the Board of
Ethics, along with the Clerk (assisted by each city clerk), must create a list
of the names and offices or positions of all officials and employees and others
required to file annual disclosure statements pursuant to §
38.039 of this code; and notify all such persons of their obligation to file an
annual disclosure statement.
   (C)   The Board of Ethics or Clerk, as designated by the Board, shall
deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the
statement by first class mail, email, or hand delivery no later than March 1 of
each year.
   (D)   The failure of the Board of Ethics or Clerk to deliver a copy of the
form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or employee of
the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.038 CONTROL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interest shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board of
Ethics, or the designated administrative official, for a period of five years
after filing; provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer, employee, board or commission member of the city or county or city or
county agency, the Board of Ethics shall cause to be destroyed any statements
of financial interest or copies of those statements filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city or county office was not elected or nominated, the
Board of Ethics shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial
interest or copies of those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.039 CONTENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The financial disclosure statement should be filed with the Board of
Ethics by all filers who are subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of
Ethics. Failure to do so will result in a civil fine of a maximum of $500
payable to the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
candidate to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of business listed as sources of income.
   (C)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the individual filing the
statement of financial interest.
   (D)   The financial disclosure statement should include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of filer;
      (2)   Current business address, business telephone number and home
address of filer;
      (3)   Title of filer's public office or office sought;
      (4)   Occupations of filer and spouse;
      (5)   Position held by the filer and any member of the filer's immediate
family in any business organization or non-profit entity from which the filer
or any member of the filer's immediate family received compensation in excess
of $10,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the name, address, and
telephone number of the business organization or non-profit entity;
      (6)   Name, address and telephone number of each source of income from
within the commonwealth of both filer and spouse which exceeded $10,000 during
the preceding calendar year;
      (7)   Name, address and telephone number of each business organization
located within the commonwealth in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or 5%
ownership interest or more during the preceding calendar year;
      (8)   The location and type (commercial, residential, agricultural) of
all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary residence,
in which the filer or the filer's spouse had an interest of $10,000 or more
during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   Offices or directorships held by the officer, candidate, nominee,
employee, board or commission member or members of his or her immediate family
as of December 31 of the reporting year. Non-profit, charitable and religious
organizations shall be excluded from this disclosure.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.040 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH FILING.
   (A)   Each person required to file a statement of financial interests who
fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement, or
files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the Ethics Board
shall be notified of such by the Board or their designee. The notice shall
specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date by which the
failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise the person of the
penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or remedy a
deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under division (A) within the
time established in the notice shall be guilty of a civil offense and shall be
subject to a civil fine imposed by the Ethics Board in an amount not to exceed
$25 per day, up to a maximum civil fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the
Ethics Board, under this section, may be recovered by the city or county in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the
penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which they know to contain false information or intentionally omits required
information, shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to a maximum
civil fine of $500 and/or a referral and recommendation for prosecution for the
appropriate criminal offense.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.041 PUBLIC VIEWING.
   All financial disclosure statements shall be open records. Each individual
or organization requesting to view financial disclosure statements shall
complete a form giving full name, address, telephone number and organization/
individual represented if other than the individual making the request. One
copy of this form shall be attached to the statement so requested and shall
become a part of the record.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.042 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nepotism is prohibited and the county's personnel policies and
procedures shall specifically define the rules and regulations concerning
nepotism and enforcement.
   (B)   No officer, employee, board or commission member shall participate in
any action relating to the employment or discipline of a family member; except
that, this prohibition shall not prevent an elected or appointed official from
voting on or participating in the development of a budget which includes
compensation for a family member; provided that, the family member is included
only as a member of a class of persons or a group, and the family member
benefits to no greater extent than any other similarly situated member of the
class or group.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.055 COUNTY BOARD OF ETHICS.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Ethics is established having the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Composition of Board of Ethics.
      (1)   Appointment. The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members who
shall be appointed by the executive authority of the city or county, subject to
the approval of the legislative body (if different from the executive
authority). The executive authorities of the Cities of Elizabethtown, Radcliff,
Vine Grove and West Point, and the Judge Executive of the county shall each
appoint one of the five members of the Board of Ethics as outlined in this
section.
      (2)   Term. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be the duly
appointed existing members, or if vacant those appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. The members shall serve for a term of three
years; except that, with respect to the members initially appointed, if any,
one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, two members shall be
appointed for a term of two years and two members shall be appointed for a term
of three years. The length of the initial term of a member appointed by an
executive authority shall be determined by a random draw. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for a term of three years. The members may be reappointed
for any number of consecutive terms.
      (3)   Requirements. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or county or any city or county agency. Each member of
the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city or county for at
least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the
city or county throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of
Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for
integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs.
      (4)   Removal. A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the
executive authority appointing them, subject to the approval of the legislative
body (if different from the executive authority) for misconduct, inability or
willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed
from office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity
for a hearing before the executive authority and the legislative body (if
different from the executive authority).
      (5)   Vacancies. Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within
60 days by the executive authority appointing them, subject to the approval of
the legislative body (if different from the executive authority). If a vacancy
is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining members
of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled
for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      (6)   Compensation. Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without
compensation, unless otherwise approved by the legislative bodies, but shall be
reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties, subject to authorization by each legislative body.
      (7)   Chairperson. The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial
appointment of its members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from
among the membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full
voting member of the Board.
      (8)   Meetings. Meetings of the county's Board of Ethics shall be held,
as necessary and at least annually, upon the call of the Chairperson or at the
written request of a majority of the members.
      (9)   Voting. The presence of three or more members shall constitute a
quorum and the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for
any official action to be taken. Any member of the county's Board of Ethics who
has a conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the
Board shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or
herself from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
      (10)   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of
Ethics and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board of Ethics
shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (C)   Facilities. Each appointing local government shall appropriate $1,000
annually by March 1 each year to the Board of Ethics for the provision of
necessary materials, supplies, administration, accounting, legal expenses and
clerical staff needed for the conduct of its business and shall make facilities
available without charge upon request of the Board of Ethics for the conduct of
its business.
   (D)   Power and duties. The county's Board of Ethics shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   To receive and investigate complaints, hold hearings and make
findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged violations ofthe
provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
      (3)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance
and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating
to an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
      (4)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to
the executive authority of the city or county, the city or county legislative
body, the governing body of any city or county agency, the City or County
Attorney or other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
      (5)   To render advisory opinions to the city or county and city or
county agency officers, employees, board or commission members regarding
whether a given set of facts and circumstances would constitute a violation of
any provision of this chapter;
      (6)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all
officers, employees, board or commission members of the city or county and city
and county agencies who are subject to its terms by issuing appropriate orders
and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
      (7)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that
are required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the state's Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884;
      (8)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city or county; and
      (9)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided that, the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.056 TRAINING AND EDUCATION.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics will, after passage or amendment of the ethics
code, make this ethics code available to all officials, employees, candidates,
and to municipal residents.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics will hold annual workshops for new and experienced
officials, Board of Ethics members, and employees to discuss this code, its
values and goals, its enforcement, and the ways in which it has affected the
officials' and employees' work and the working of the county government.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.057 ANNUAL REPORTS AND REVIEW.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics must prepare and submit an annual report to the
legislative body summarizing the activities, decisions, and advisory opinions
of the Board of Ethics. The report may also recommend changes to the text or
administration of this ethics code. The report must be submitted no later than
November 30 each year, covering the previous year and must be filed with the
County Clerk and made available on the county website.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics will periodically (no less than every five years)
review this ethics code, the enforcement of the ethics code, and the Ethics
Board's rules, regulations, and administrative procedures to determine whether
they promote integrity, public confidence, and participation in county
government, and whether they set forth clear and enforceable, common-sense
standards of conduct.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.058 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   The Hardin County website shall maintain a current address and or
email address to which any written ethics complaint can be submitted and the
Board shall maintain a process for timely receipt and processing of any
complaint consistent with this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the
complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt. Within 30 days of
the receipt of a complaint, the Board of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary
inquiry based upon the allegations contained in the complaint and determine:
      (1)   If the complaint is within the jurisdiction of Board of Ethics; and
      (2)   If the complaint alleges reasonable grounds that a violation of the
applicable ordinance has occurred.
   (D)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board of Ethics, except the Board of Ethics may
turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or County Attorney evidence which may
be used in criminal proceedings; and
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics determines based on its preliminary inquiry (1)
that the complaint is not within its jurisdiction; or (2) that the complaint
does not allege reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of this chapter
has occurred the Board of Ethics shall summarily terminate the inquiry, reduce
the conclusion to writing and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to the officer, employee, board or commission member against
whom the complaint was filed.
   (F)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
(1) that the complaint is within its jurisdiction; and (2) that it contains
allegations sufficient to establish reasonable grounds to believe that a
violation has occurred, the Board of Ethics shall notify the officer, employee,
board or commission member who is the subject of the complaint and shall issue
an order to initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation
and afford a person who is the subject of the complaint an opportunity to
respond to the allegations in the complaint.
   (G)   The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath, to offer evidence in response to the
allegations and cross examine witnesses against him/her at the hearing.
   (H)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer, employee,
board or commission member of the city or county or any city or county agency
shall be subject to a civil fine not to exceed $1,000 payable to the
Commission.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.059 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice of hearings. If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing
regarding allegations contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board of
Ethics shall issue an order setting the matter for a hearing within 30 days of
the date the order is issued, unless both the complainant and the alleged
violator agree and the Board of Ethics consents to a later date.
   (B)   The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board of Ethics relating to the hearing, shall be
sent to the alleged violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued. The alleged violator shall have at least ten days' prior
notice of any hearing.
   (C)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board of
Ethics so as to afford all parties the full range of due process rights
required by the nature of the proceedings.
      (2)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or
his or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity upon request to
examine all documents and records, intended to be introduced at the hearing by
the complainant in connection with the matter to be heard.
      (3)   Hearings shall be recorded by either video, audio or stenographic
means. All testimony in a Board of Ethics hearing shall be taken under oath and
administered by the presiding officer, who is a member of the Board of Ethics.
      (4)   The complainant and the alleged violator shall have the right to
call and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses,
to submit evidence and to be represented by retained counsel.
      (5)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be conducted pursuant to
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act, (KRS 61.810, et seq.).
      (6)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations pursuant to KRS 61.810 for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven by clear and convincing evidence.
      (7)   Within 30 days after completion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics
shall issue a written report of its findings and conclusions.
      (8)   If the Board of Ethics concludes in its report that no violation of
this chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer, employee, board or commission member who was the
subject of the complaint and to the complainant.
      (9)   If the Board of Ethics concludes in its report that, after
consideration of the evidence produced at the hearing, there is clear and
convincing proof of a violation of this chapter, the Board of Ethics may do one
or more of the following:
         (a)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
         (b)   Issue a written reprimand of the violator for the violation(s).
The reprimand shall be provided to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or county or city or
county agency with which the violator serves;
         (c)   Issue an order repairing the violator to pay a civil penalty of
up to $1,000; or
         (d)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state
law to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
review of criminal prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 38.69) (Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.060 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the county's Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit
Court of the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the
county's Board of Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board.
The Board shall transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by
the Board at the public hearing.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.061 LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the person complained about leaves office or employment.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.062 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer,
employee, board or commission member of the city or county or a city or county
agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions.
   (C)   The Board of Ethics may adopt regulations, consistent with the state's
Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884, to establish criteria under
which it will issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions
shall be public documents; except that, before an advisory opinion is made
public, it shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with
the opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board of Ethics shall be
binding on the Board of Ethics in any subsequent proceeding concerning the
facts and circumstances of the particular case if no intervening facts or
circumstances arise which would change the opinion of the Board of Ethics if
they had existed at the time the opinion was rendered. However, if any fact
determined by the Board of Ethics to be material was omitted or misstated in
the request for an opinion, the Board of Ethics shall not be bound by the
opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board of Ethics shall be
admissible in the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for
violations of this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 38.063 PROHIBITED CONDUCT AGAINST THOSE WHO DISCLOSE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No officer, employee, board or commission member of the city or county
or any city or county agency shall be subject to reprisal, or directly or
indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official authority or influence in any
manner whatsoever which tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent,
interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any person who in good faith
reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to the attention of the Board
of Ethics or any other agency or official of the city, county or the
commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer, employee, board or commission member of the city
or county or any city or county agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
state's Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter
or by state or federal laws, any officer or employee of the county or any
county agency who is found by the Ethics Board to have violated any provision
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to
a civil fine imposed by the Ethics Board not to exceed $1,000, which may be
recovered by the county in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the county or any county agency who is
found by the Ethics Board to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the county or the county agency an amount equal to the economic
benefit or gain, which the officer or employee is determined by the Ethics
Board to have realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any
forfeiture may be recovered by the county in a civil action in the nature of
debt if the offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a
prescribed period of time.
(Prior Code, § 38.68) (Ord. 2025-07, passed 8-11-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   GARBAGE
      
54.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.03   Tampering with or damaging wastewater facilities
   
50.04   Connection to water lines
   
50.05   Utility work on city property
Rates and Charges
   
50.20   Water and sewer tap-in charges
   
50.21   Monthly water/sewer/garbage rates
   
50.22   Rates effective when sewer lines available
   
50.23   Proration of charges
   
50.24   All customers metered; water meter deposit
   
50.25   Meter reading and billing procedure
   
50.26   Joint water/sewer/garbage billing
   
50.27   Disconnection; bill protest procedure
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE. Applies to the sewer system if any premises abut upon any street,
road, alley, public way or easement in which there exists a sewer pipe, main,
lateral or other structure or installation of the sewer system capable of
receiving flowable wastes, or if there is a city sewer within 100 feet of the
premises.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specified use of land owned by
others.
   ENGINEER. The superintendent of wastewater facilities, or of wastewater
treatment works, or of water pollution control of the city, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Engineer.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to discharge to the wastewater collection system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Engineer or other duly authorized employees are authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The
industry may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must
establish that the revelation to the public of the information in question
might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Engineer or duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury, or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.11 of this code.
   (D)   The Engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
§ 50.03 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part
of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under a charge of criminal mischief.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
§ 50.04 CONNECTION TO WATER LINES.
   All owners of houses, apartments, hotels, motels, trailer camps,
manufacturing or commercial establishments or any other habitable building of
any kind situated on lots abutting any street, alley or easement, in which
there is hereafter installed a water line which is part of the combined and
consolidated municipal waterworks and sewer system of the city shall, within 90
days from the date the water line is installed and placed in operation, connect
to the water line.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 UTILITY WORK ON CITY PROPERTY.
   Firms or persons who have contracts with the city for the installation,
inspection or repair of water mains, sewer mains or other utility services are
granted the authority to use city streets and alleys and other public
properties as required under the supervision of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.20 WATER AND SEWER TAP-IN CHARGES.
   (A)   The tapping fee for residential and small business users where water
service is available from a main water line within 50 feet of the premises will
be $500, which will include the installation of a line to the edge of the
premises and the installation of a meter box and meter.
   (B)   The tap in and meter charges shall be as follows:
 
Tap-in Charge                 Rate
Water tap:
   5/8-inch by 3/4-inch met$650
   1 inch by 1 inch meter  $850
   2 inch by 2 inch meter  To be charged at actual material and labor cost
Additional time plus material per service if road crossing is required
 
   (C)   The tapping fees for the installation of a sewer service on an
existing main sewer line within 50 feet of the premises shall be $1,000.
   (D)   The charge for water or sewer service for any distance greater than 50
feet from a main will require the payments listed in divisions (A), (B) and (C)
above plus the cost of materials and labor for the distance beyond 50 feet,
plus 10% of such additional cost for administration thereof.
   (E)   The charges for the installation of sewer service on an existing line
for a six-inch pipe will be $750 plus the cost of labor and materials to
install the tap and the installation will be a maximum of 50 feet from the main
or the property line, whichever is less. The city will be responsible for all
taps into the sewer main. In the event that the tap-in fee is not paid, then
the city will not furnish water to the consumer until it is paid. In the event
that the consumer has not paid a tap-in fee and is using water, the city shall
shut off the water to the consumer until the tap-in fee is paid.
(Prior Code, § 50.40) (Ord. 2018-08 passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 2018-09, passed 7-9-
2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 MONTHLY WATER/SEWER/GARBAGE RATES.
   The rates and charges for water services furnished by the city’s water
system are hereby revised as follows.
   (A)   Minimum water rate. There shall be a minimum usage charge of 2,500
gallons of water in each month for all years mentioned herein.
   (B)   Additional water rates. The rates for water, sewer and garbage
collection services to be furnished by the city, both inside and outside the
city, are set forth in the current schedule of rates approved by Council by
ordinance. Current rates are on file with the Clerk/Treasurer and are available
for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 50.41) (Ord. 2015-02, passed - - ; Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-2-
2023)
§ 50.22 RATES EFFECTIVE WHEN SEWER LINES AVAILABLE.
   (A)   All owners and occupants of premises where sewers are made available
shall, within 90 days from the date a sewer line is installed and placed in
operation, connect thereto all sanitary sewer drain pipes of the premises.
   (B)   The rates and charges for the services rendered by or the availability
of the sewer services of the combined municipal water and sewer system shall
become effective as to all premises where new sewer lines are made available
upon the date of actual connection thereto or 90 days after a representative of
the city gives notice to the owner or occupant of the premises that sewer
service has been made available, whichever date is the earlier.
(Prior Code, § 50.42) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 PRORATION OF CHARGES.
   As soon as sewer service is furnished to any user, the charges shall be
collected, and if the service is for less than a whole month, the sewer service
shall be billed on a pro rata basis by considering that the water used by the
user was the same proportion of the total water used for the particular month
as the number of days he or she had sewer service bore to the total number of
days in the month.
(Prior Code, § 50.43) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 ALL CUSTOMERS METERED; WATER METER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Meters required.
      (1)   No free service shall be allowed or permitted from the facilities
of the combined municipal water and sewer system of the city. No connections to
the water system shall be permitted or made except on a fully metered basis.
Each and every user of water service shall have a separate meter, except that
more than one user in the same building may be on the same meter.
      (2)   In the event a lot, parcel of land, building or premises
discharging water or other liquid wastes uses water supplied on other than a
metered basis from either a private or a public water supply, then in each case
the owner or occupant may be required to cause a water meter or other measuring
device to be installed, acceptable to the City Council, and the quantity of
water used as measured by the meter shall determine the sewer rate, rental or
charge and pending installation of the meter or measuring device, rates,
rentals and charges shall be based upon an estimated quantity of water used.
      (3)   All water customers in the city shall pay a monthly water meter
rental fee. The fee will be determined by the size of the meter that each
customer is using. Meter rental fees will be billed on the customer’s monthly
water bill and shall be as follows.
 
Tap/Meter Size                Rental Fee
   5/8-inch by 3/4-inch met$3/month
   1 inch by 1 inch meter  $5/month
   2 inch by 2 inch meter  $10/month
 
   (B)   Water meter deposits.
      (1)   The deposit for property owners shall be $50.
      (2)   The deposit for persons renting any property shall be $125.
      (3)   The deposit for a person buying property will be returned in one
year; if renting any property, the deposit shall be kept until that person has
moved from that property.
(Prior Code, § 50.44) (Ord. 2018-11, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 50.25 METER READING AND BILLING PROCEDURE.
   The meters for water service shall be read as soon as is reasonably possible
after the middle of each month, and all bills for water and sewer service shall
be rendered on or about the first of the following month. If any bill for water
and sewer service is not paid by the tenth of the following month, a 3% penalty
shall be added to the entire amount of the bill. If any bill is not paid by the
fifteenth of the following month, the water service of the customer in default
shall be discontinued in accordance with §
50.27 of this code and shall not be reinstated until payment has been made in
accordance with §
50.26 of this code. If water customers are disconnected from service due to
nonpayment of water bill, to reconnect to water service they are to pay a fee
as shown in the following table. After the customers have paid the service fee
and the past due water charges, the city will then restore water service.
 
First delinquent billing cycle                        $40
Second consecutive delinquent billing cycle           $50
Third consecutive delinquent billing cycle            $75
Every consecutive delinquent billing cycle thereafter $100
 
(Prior Code, § 50.45) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-13-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 JOINT WATER/SEWER/GARBAGE BILLING.
   Bills for water, sewer and garbage collection service shall be billed,
collected and enforced together, so that when any bill has remained unpaid and
becomes delinquent the water service to the delinquent premises will be
discontinued in accordance with §
50.27 of this code and will not be reinstated until the entire bill is paid in
full. Payment for water service on any bill will not be acceptable without
payment for sewer and garbage collection service, except to the extent that the
payment shall be deducted from the sum due and owing for the combined water,
sewer and garbage collection services, but in no event shall water service be
restored until the entire bill has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 50.46) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 DISCONNECTION; BILL PROTEST PROCEDURE.
   The city shall disconnect utility service only in accord with the following
policies.
   (A)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid and any deposit required has been
made. It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to customers
by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful opportunity
to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for utility
service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address, room
number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a delinquent notice
will be delivered containing a statement that if the bill is not paid on or
before the date set forth in the delinquent notice, service will be
discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
(Prior Code, § 50.47)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Unlawful deposits
   
51.02   Discharges to natural outlets
   
51.03   Privies, septic tanks and cesspools; connection with public sewer
   
51.04   Private wastewater disposal regulations
   
51.05   Building sewer permits and specifications
   
51.06   Discharge of storm or surface waters
   
51.07   Prohibited discharges
   
51.08   Engineer’s authority as to dangerous discharges
   
51.09   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.10   Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities
   
51.11   Observation structures
   
51.12   User required to provide information
   
51.13   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
51.14   Special agreements
   
51.15   House sewer connections; specifications
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 DISCHARGES TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS; CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (B)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is
within 100 feet (30 and one-half meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.03 of this code, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Engineer.
The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Engineer. A permit and inspection
fee of $50 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Engineer. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Engineer when the work is ready for final inspection before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the
receipt of notice by the Engineer.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the commonwealth. No permit shall be issued for any private
wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 9,000 square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in division (D) above, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 90 days in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer tap-in charges, see §
50.20
§ 51.05 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Engineer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, for residential
and commercial service and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Engineer. A permit and inspection fee of $50
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any single connection aforementioned.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Engineer, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless the connection is
approved by the Engineer for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Engineer
before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Engineer
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Engineer or
his or her representative.
   (K)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer tap-in charges, see §
50.20
§ 51.06 DISCHARGE OF STORM OR SURFACE WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof run-off, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater run-off from limited areas, which
stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by
permission of the Engineer.
   (B)   (1)   Stormwater other than that exempted under division (A) above,
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Engineer and other regulatory agencies.
      (2)   Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Engineer, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, offal, paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Engineer may set limitations lower than the limitations established in the
regulations below if in his or her opinion more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability, the Engineer will give consideration to the factors as the
quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process
employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of
the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or
wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated
without approval of the Engineer are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Engineer for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Engineer;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Engineer in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
50.01 of this code;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes, or are amenable
to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent
cannot meet requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge
to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 ENGINEER’S AUTHORITY AS TO DANGEROUS DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.07(B) of this code, and which in the judgment of the Engineer, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or public nuisance, the
Engineer may do the following:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.14 of this code.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Engineer shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharger. If
the Engineer permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in §
51.07(B)(3) of this code, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Engineer and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal
by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the
dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the Engineer. Any
removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner’s
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § 50.23) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 50.24) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 OBSERVATION STRUCTURES.
   When required by the Engineer, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The structure,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the Engineer. The structure shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 USER REQUIRED TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Engineer may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and/or
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.26)
§ 51.13 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 50.27)
§ 51.14 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment.
(Prior Code, § 50.28)
§ 51.15 HOUSE SEWER CONNECTIONS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All house sewer connections must be constructed of either cast iron,
soil pipe or wedge lock.
   (B)   The final connection between the house drain and the house sewer and
all joints in the house sewer, other than cast iron pipe with lead joints,
wedge lock starting at the main sewer tap and connecting to the house drain
shall be hot poured with bell and spigot ends.
   (C)   All piping with preformed joints shall be wiped clean of foreign
matter and coated with an approved material before being joined. All hot poured
joints shall be firmly packed with dry jute and poured with GK or JG-60
compound.
   (D)   Joints made with cement or cold mastic material shall not be accepted.
   (E)   The house sewer and all branches shall be laid to a uniform grade and
alignment and of a grade of not less than one-eighths-inch per foot or more
than one-quarter-inch per foot.
   (F)   An approved adopter fitting or reducer shall be used when the house
sewer is of a different material or size than the main sewer.
   (G)   The house sewer must be left open in its entirety for inspection,
including the piping to the trunk sewer. If any house sewer or parts thereof is
covered prior to inspection, it will be necessary that it be uncovered before
it is accepted and approved.
   (H)   A plumbing permit must be secured from the Plumbing Inspector located
at Hardin County Planning, 14 Public Square, Third Floor, Elizabethtown,
Kentucky 42701 on Thursdays between the hours of l:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m.
   (I)   Any person who refuses to uncover a house sewer for inspection will be
violating the Standard Plumbing Code, PC-11-3 and the regulation of the
county’s Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 50.29) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Water Shortage Response
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Declaration of water shortage advisory
   
52.04   Declaration of water shortage alert
   
52.05   Declaration of water shortage emergency
   
52.06   Shortage water rates
   
52.07   Regulations
   
52.08   Violations
 
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the event a
shortage is declared. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with common law riparian or statutory water rights.
(Prior Code, § 50.60)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the city’s water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   OTHER SOURCES OF WATER. Water that has not been introduced by the city into
its water distribution system.
   RAW WATER SUPPLIES. All water potentially available to persons in the city.
   TREATED WATER. Water that has been introduced by the city into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale. Uses of treated water
are classified in the following definition.
   USE CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   ESSENTIAL WATER USES (CLASS I). The following uses of water, listed
by site or user type, are essential:
         (a)   Domestic. Water necessary to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation;
         (b)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation;
         (c)   Water hauling. Sales for domestic use where not reasonably
available elsewhere.;
         (d)   Public use.
            1.   Firefighting; and
            2.   Health and public protection purposes, as specifically
approved by health officials and the municipal governing body.
      (2)   SOCIALLY OR ECONOMICALLY IMPORTANT USES OF WATER (CLASS II). The
following uses of water, listed by site or user type, are socially or
economically important:
         (a)   Domestic. Personal, in-house water use including kitchen,
bathroom and laundry;
         (b)   Water hauling. Non-domestic, when other sources are not
reasonably available elsewhere;
         (c)   Commercial and civic use.
            1.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            2.   Laundromats;
            3.   Restaurants, clubs and eating places; and
            4.   Schools, churches, motels/hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
         (d)   Outdoor non-commercial watering.
            1.   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens; and
            2.   Minimal watering of trees where necessary for their survival.
         (e)   Outdoor commercial or public watering (using conservation
methods and when other sources of water are not available or feasible to use).
            1.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance
of livestock;
            2.   Watering by arboretums and public gardens of national, state,
regional or community significance where necessary to preserve specimens,
watering by commercial nurseries where necessary to maintain stock;
            3.   Watering where necessary to establish or maintain revegetation
or landscape plantings required pursuant to law or regulation;
            4.   Watering of woody plants where necessary to preserve them; and
            5.   Minimal watering of golf course greens.
         (f)   Recreational. Operation of municipal swimming pools and
residential pools that serve more than 25 dwelling units; and
         (g)   Air conditioning.
            1.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season;
            2.   Makeup of water during the cooling season; and
            3.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair services.
      (3)   NON-ESSENTIAL (CLASS III). Any wastewater, as defined herein, is
non-essential. The following uses of water, listed by site or user type, are
also non-essential:
         (a)   Public use:
            1.   Use of fire hydrants (excluding Class I and Class II uses),
including use of sprinkler caps, testing fire apparatus and fire department
drills; and
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as needed to ensure
public health and safety as approved by health officials and the municipal
governing body.
         (b)   Commercial and civic use:
            1.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating places, except
by customer request;
            2.   Failure to repair a controllable leak; and
            3.   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational ponds and
lakes, except as necessary to support fish and wildlife.
         (c)   Ornamental purposes: Fountains, reflecting pools and artificial
waterfalls;
         (d)   Outdoor non-commercial watering:
            1.   Use of water for dirt control or compaction;
            2.   Watering of annual or non-woody plants other than vegetable
gardens;
            3.   Watering of lawns, parks, golf course fairways, playing fields
and other recreational areas;
            4.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas;
            5.   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection; and
            6.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street.
         (e)   Outdoor commercial or public watering:
            1.   Expanding nursery facilities, placing new irrigated
agricultural land in production or planting of landscaping except when required
by a site design review process;
            2.   Use of water for dirt control or compaction;
            3.   Watering of lawns, parks, golf course fairways, playing fields
and other recreational areas;
            4.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas;
            5.   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection; and
            6.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street.
         (f)   Recreational uses other than those specified as Class II;
         (g)   Non-commercial washing of motor and other vehicles; and
         (h)   Air conditioning (see also Class II purposes): Refilling cooling
towers after draining.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PHASES.
      (1)   ADVISORY. Conditions exist which indicate the potential for serious
water supply shortages.
      (2)   ALERT. Raw water supplies are consistently below seasonal averages,
and if they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
      (3)   EMERGENCY. Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet
normal needs and serious shortages exist in the area.
(Prior Code, § 50.61)
§ 52.03 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that a potential shortage of
raw water supplies is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution
that a water shortage advisory exists, and that the Water Superintendent shall,
on a daily basis, monitor the supply and demands upon that supply. In addition,
the Mayor is authorized to call upon all water customers to employ voluntary
water conservation measures to limit non-essential (Class III) water use and
eliminate the waste of water. This resolution shall be published in the
official city newspaper and may be publicized through the general news media or
any other appropriate method for making the resolutions public.
(Prior Code, § 50.62)
§ 52.04 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds raw water supplies to be
consistently below seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline and may
not be adequate to meet normal needs, it shall continue to encourage voluntary
water conservation measures defined under the advisory declaration, and further
shall impose a ban on all non-essential (Class III) water uses for the duration
of the shortage until it is declared to have ended by resolution of the
governing body. Declaration of these resolutions shall follow the guidelines in
§
52.03 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.63)
§ 52.05 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that raw water supplies
are below the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages
exist, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage
emergency exists.
   (B)   Essential uses (Class I) shall be identified, in specific, as targets
for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all socially or economically
important uses (Class II) shall be restricted, and non-essential uses (Class
III) shall be banned.
   (C)   These restrictions shall be considered ongoing until the emergency is
ended by resolution of the governing body.
   (D)   Declaration of these resolutions shall follow the guidelines in §
52.03 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.64)
§ 52.06 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water shortage as provided in §§
52.03 through
52.05 of this code, the City Council shall have the power to adopt shortage
water rates, by ordinance, designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   The rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block
rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate);
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Prior Code, § 50.65)
§ 52.07 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
52.03 through
52.05 of this code, the Mayor or Water Superintendent is empowered to
promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
this subchapter, any water supply shortage resolution or water shortage rate
ordinance. The regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing
body at its next regular or emergency meeting.
(Prior Code, § 50.66)
§ 52.08 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter, who fails to
carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this subchapter, or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
subchapter shall be subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   If the Mayor, City Manager, Water Superintendent or other city
official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
subchapter of a water supply shortage resolution learns of any violation of any
water use restriction imposed pursuant to this subchapter, a written notice of
the violation shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and
mailed to the customer of record and to any other person known to the city who
is responsible for the violation or its correction. The notice shall describe
the violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or
within the specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or a city official
designated as a hearing officer by the governing body.
      (2)   If a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
      (3)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (A) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation and
$300 for each additional violation.
   (C)   Any customer may also be charged with violation of this subchapter and
prosecuted in district court, and fined in an amount as set forth in §
52.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.67) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this
subchapter may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be
no less than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to
the city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Uncovered garbage
   
53.03   Deposit on the streets
   
53.04   Disposal of trash
   
53.05   Burning of trash
   
53.06   Containers: specifications; placement
   
53.07   Responsibility for containers
   
53.08   Garbage collection fees
   
53.09   Adopt the county’s solid waste management plan
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Certain conditions declared a nuisance, see §
96.02
   Littering, see
Chapter 94
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of foods, wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE.
      (1)   Combustible trash, including, but not limited to paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture
and bedding;
      (2)   Noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to metals, tin
cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete,
glass, crockery and other mineral waste;
      (3)   Street rubbish, including, but not limited to street sweepings,
dirt, leaves, catch-basin dirt and contents of litter receptacles; and
      (4)   Refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building operations,
nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and
manufacturing operations, such as boiler-house cinders, lumber, scraps and
shavings.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 UNCOVERED GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to remain
anywhere in the city any garbage or other material, subject to decay, other
than grass or leaves, except in a tightly covered metal or plastic container.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit to accumulate
any refuse that can be blown away by the wind anywhere in the city, except in a
covered container.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 DEPOSIT ON THE STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to fall from any
vehicle any garbage or refuse on any public streets or highways in the city.
This section shall not be construed to apply where garbage and refuse has been
placed for pickup and disposal in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 DISPOSAL OF TRASH.
   (A)   Garbage and refuse shall be disposed of by any of the following
methods:
      (1)   Pickup and collection by sanitation companies authorized by the
city;
      (2)   Dumping in an approved county sanitation landfill; or
      (3)   Burning in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of garbage or refuse by dumping same
on any premises in the city with or without the consent of the owner of the
premises. Garbage and refuse collected by authorized sanitation companies shall
not be disposed of within the city.
   (C)   Garbage or refuse shall be disposed of from all premises within the
city once per week.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 BURNING OF TRASH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn garbage anywhere in the city. It shall be
unlawful to burn refuse anywhere in the city, except in an approved
incinerator. An approved incinerator is defined as follows.
      (1)   Any incinerator with a capacity of more than two bushels shall be
constructed to comply with the requirements of the state’s Air Pollution
Commission.
      (2)   Any incinerator with a capacity of two bushels or less shall meet
the requirements of the state’s standards of safety and be approved by the Fire
Chief.
   (B)   Leaves may be burned outside an approved incinerator if properly piled
at least 50 feet from any structure and if the fire is attended at all times by
an adult.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 CONTAINERS: SPECIFICATIONS; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   All garbage, refuse and ashes awaiting disposal shall be placed in
metal or plastic containers equipped with a tight cover, or containers such as
plastic bags, which must be closed at the top and secured to prevent animal
pilferage of garbage. Clean up is the responsibility of the property owner and
persons occupying premises. Any container that is not a commercial dumpster
used by a sanitation company shall be equipped with handles so that it may be
carried by one man, and shall have a capacity of not less than ten gallons or
more than 30 gallons. While storing garbage or refuse, the container shall be
kept completely closed at all times.
   (B)   No person shall permit his or her containers to sit upon any public
right-of-way unless placed there for pickup and disposal, and then shall be
placed there only on the day of collection and prior to such collection. All
containers shall be placed near a public road, street or at a place convenient
to be picked up for disposal purposes. All containers must be removed from
street site within 12 hours after collection.
   (C)   All dumpsters for waste disposal (other than those for temporary uses)
shall be adequately screened from street view and living unit view and be fully
accessible for garbage collection. Such screen shall be pleasing in design and
of a substantial material, easily maintainable and sufficient to block the view
from the street and living units.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 2018-16, passed 11-12-2018) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTAINERS.
   All individuals having the use of or placing garbage or refuse in garbage
containers shall be responsible for their own garbage containers, regardless of
whether the persons are the owners of the premises or the owners of the garbage
containers. It shall be the responsibility of each person who rents any
premises to comply with the provisions of this chapter and the owner of any
premises shall not be responsible for the acts of any renter as far as the
accumulation, transmission and disposal of, garbage and refuse. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the premises to mark all garbage containers in a
manner so as to identify which garbage containers are to be used for each unit
of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 GARBAGE COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   Garbage collection fees are on file at the city hall.
   (B)   The fees charged for garbage collection shall be included on the
monthly water and sewer bills (see § 50.21 of this code) and collected in the
same manner as the water and sewer bills.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) Penalty, see §
53.99
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer billing procedure, see §
50.25
§ 53.09 ADOPT THE COUNTY’S SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts the Hardin County Solid Waste Management Plan 2018-
2022 Update and supports its action plan, implementation plan and associated
activities.
(Res. 2017-05, passed - -)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Stormwater Utility
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Stormwater fees
   
54.03   Public property exemption
   
54.04   Billing of new accounts
   
54.05   Stormwater Management Fund
   
54.06   Credit based on reduction of impact
   
54.07   Appeals
Stormwater Management
   
54.20   Adoption; findings of fact
   
54.21   Definitions
   
54.22   Illicit discharge detection and elimination
   
54.23   Construction site stormwater runoff control
   
54.24   Post-construction stormwater management in new development,
redevelopment and existing systems
   
54.25   Enforcement
   
54.26   Notification
 
   
54.99   Penalty
STORMWATER UTILITY
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter shall
have meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   ACTIVE WATER SERVICE ACCOUNT. An account with or without water meter that is
current with a service contract.
   CHARGES. The amounts in money due and payable for storm water service
rendered to customers of the city’s municipal utilities in the ordinary and
regular course of business according to the rates fixed by the appropriate
ordinances.
   EQUIVALENT RATE UNITS (ERU). The basic unit for the computation of storm
water service fee. All single-family dwelling units are considered one ERU
regardless of the actual lot or structure size and are considered to have an
average impervious area of 3,000 square feet. Non-residential/commercial
property shall be determined by square footage of impervious surface and by the
city and the administrative, technical and operational personnel thereof and
its designated agents or assigns.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. The horizontal-projected plane of roof, paved areas, and
other impervious surfaces, but does not include non-permanent structures such
as temporary buildings and tents. Also excluded are all lawns; landscape areas;
gardens or farming areas; swimming pools, ponds, lakes; and storm water
retention and detention basins.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES. All duplex, tri-plex, four-plex,
condominium, mobile home parks, apartments and other properties containing more
than one dwelling unit but less than five dwelling units. Any residential units
consisting of five or more units shall be considered commercial property. Also
included are residential unit(s) in a multi-occupancy building of a
predominately non-residential/commercial nature, such as multi-story building
with retail, office, and residential uses. Common areas associated with such
properties shall be included in the charge to the multi-family units on said
properties.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. All property zoned or used for
commercial, industrial, retail, governmental, or other non-residential purposes
and shall include all developed real property in the city service area not
classified as single-family or multi-family as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. Any federal, state, or local government agency and any
instrumentality of such agency created by state or local statute, executive
order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act, to perform a purely
public purpose.
   SINGLE-FAMILY PROPERTY. All single-family detached housing units. Attached
single family dwellings served by individual water meters shall also be
considered under this category. All other residential developments shall be
classified as multi-family.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 54.02 STORMWATER FEES.
   (A)   All properties of record within the city shall pay a monthly storm
water fee based on the contribution to storm water runoff which shall be based
on the impervious areas of the properties. Impervious areas shall be expressed
in equivalent rate units.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit on single-family property shall be considered one
ERU for billing purposes.
   (C)   The monthly stormwater fee for all multi-family properties shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Duplex, tri-plex, or four-plex units: one ERU per dwelling unit;
      (2)   Condominium units: one ERU per dwelling unit;
      (3)   Apartments: one-half ERU per dwelling unit; and
      (4)   Mobile homes: one-half ERU per lot space.
   (D)   The monthly stormwater fee for all non-residential/commercial property
shall be determined by measuring the total square footage of all impervious
surface area as follows:
      (1)   The total impervious area shall be divided by 3,000 square feet to
determine the equivalent rate unit.
      (2)   Impervious area determinations shall be rounded to the nearest
whole number ERU.
      (3)   A fee of $3.50 per ERU will be charged for the first 60,000 square
feet of each property and $1.42 per ERU for all impervious area over 60,000
square feet.
   (E)   The stormwater fee shall be $3.50 per ERU.
   (F)   Stormwater fees set by this section will revert to the fees
established by Ordinance 2011-04 on June 30, 2027, unless amended by future
ordinance.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 54.03 PUBLIC PROPERTY EXEMPTION.
   All publicly owned paved streets, roadways, and sidewalks shall not be
subject to any stormwater fee.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 54.04 BILLING OF NEW ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   In the event a property shall not have utility service but is deemed
to be contributing runoff to the city's stormwater management system, a new
account shall be developed, and that property shall be billed for the
stormwater fees.
   (B)   For new developments and/or as other special circumstances may require
all non-residential/ commercial properties for which the actual impervious
areas have not been determined shall pay a minimum monthly fee based on one ERU
until the actual impervious areas are determined.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 54.05 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fees collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be used exclusively
by the city for the purpose of paying for all components and activities of the
stormwater management and water quality program.
   (B)   Expenditures for purposes that are not related to the city management
program shall not be permitted except as authorized by the city.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 54.06 CREDIT BASED ON REDUCTION OF IMPACT.
   (A)   A 20% reduction shall be applied for developments that design
detention or retention basins for a 50-year, 24-hour duration rain fall event.
   (B)   A 30% reduction shall be applied for developments that design
detention or retain basins for a 100-year, 24-hour duration rain fall event.
   (C)   Developments that have provided detention or retention basins since
July 1, 1999, that were approved by the city shall receive a 20% reduction.
   (D)Public entities that have constructed stormwater detention or retention
structures shall receive a 100% credit for the development in the year
constructed. The credit can carry forward for a period of two years if it
exceeds the annual storm water utility fee.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 54.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any customer or property owner who believes that the stormwater fee
for his/her property has been assigned or computed incorrectly may petition in
writing to the city for a review of said charges.
   (B)   The city shall be responsible for establishing an appeal process to
review and adjudicate appeals. Any credits authorized by the appeal process
shall only be effective against billings subsequent to the date of
authorization.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-09, passed 4-1-2024)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 54.20 ADOPTION; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The City Council hereby adopts, affirms and incorporates by reference as if
fully set forth herein, as its “Findings of Fact,” the recitals set forth in
the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011)
§ 54.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CSS. The combined sewer system, or the sewer system that carries a mixture
of stormwater and sanitary sewage during and immediately after rain events.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized
enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. The act of depositing pollutants into the MS4 and/or the
CSS.
   KEPSC. The Kentucky Erosion Prevention and Sediment Control Program, which
is a group consisting of the MS4 communities throughout the commonwealth,
created to establish equity throughout the commonwealth in the training and
qualification of inspectors and plan preparers.
   KPDES. The Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   MCM. A minimum control measure, which is the least action required to obtain
the goals as set forth in the KPDES permit.
   MS4. The municipal separate storm sewer system, or the conveyance system
that carries only stormwater, and not sanitary sewage.
   NOD. A notice of deficiency, which will be defined as the written notice
given to a person or entity by the city upon the first violation of this
subchapter. The violator of this subchapter shall be given a set time period to
make corrective actions to repair the system.
   NOI. The notice of intent of a construction project, as defined in the KPDES
permit.
   NOT. The notice of termination of a construction project, as defined in the
KPDES permit.
   NOV. A notice of violation, which will be defined as the subsequent written
notices, after the NOD given to a person or entity by the city after repeated
violations of this subchapter have occurred. The violator of this subchapter
shall be given a reasonable time period to make corrective actions to repair
the system prior to stop work orders, fines and/or mandated incarceration.
   PERSON. Any natural person, or any firm, proprietorship, association,
corporation or other public or private organization.
   POLLUTANTS. Includes paint, oil or any petroleum-based substances, toxic
chemicals or hazardous materials and substances, solid or human waste,
untreated sewage or any substance, the exposure to which is deemed harmful to
humans, animals or the environment under federal or state law.
   PRIVATE STORM SEWER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any manhole, drainage inlet, catch
basin, ditch, creek, stream, water course, drainage conduit, sewer, pond, lake,
drainage way, retention basin or topographical configuration which acts to
channel the course of stormwater flow across privately owned property, or any
combination of the above, or all other natural or human-made outlets which
empty into any of the above which carry storm and surface water and drainage
but does not fall within a dedicated and/or platted right-of-way, drainage
easement or utility easement. These systems are not to be maintained by the
city.
   PUBLIC STORM SEWER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any approved and dedicated manhole,
drainage inlet, public right-of-way, including curb and gutter, catch basin,
ditch, creek, stream, water course, drainage conduit, sewer, pond, lake,
drainage easement, retention basin or topographical configuration which acts to
channel the course of stormwater flow across publicly or privately owned
property, or any combination of the above, or all other approved and dedicated
natural or human-made outlets which empty into any of the above drainage system
which carry storm, surface water and drainage which fall within a dedicated
right-of-way, drainage easement or utility easement. These systems are to be
maintained by the city.
   QUALIFIED INSPECTOR. An individual who has successfully completed the KEPSC
qualified inspector training program and has scored a passing grade on the
exam, or has obtained a similar qualification from a similar accredited program
on the state or national level. Other professional registrations or licenses
shall not be substituted for this qualification.
   STOP WORK ORDER. A written notice given to any violator of this subchapter
requiring the violator to immediately cease and desist any and all activity on
the site the violation occurred, other than any work required to correct and
repair the damaged system. No other work can be performed on the site until the
stop work order is rescinded.
   SWPPP. The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan of a construction project,
as defined in the KPDES permit.
   YARD WASTE. Includes grass clippings, leaves, limbs, plants, bushes, flowers
or shrubs.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011)
§ 54.22 ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or permit, authorize, allow or
direct another person to do, or fail to do when required, any of the following:
   (A)   Deposit any concrete, steel, pollutants, building materials or yard
waste of any kind in the guttered curb of any street or alley located within
public right-of-way that drains into the MS4 or CSS;
   (B)   Deposit any solid waste, debris, yard waste, pollutants, wastewater
(sewage), concrete, building materials, tires, appliances, animal carcasses or
any other substance, material or obstruction of any kind in an open ditch,
sewer or stormwater inlet and catch basin or manhole, that is part of or drains
into the MS4 or CSS; and/or
   (C)   Connect to the public storm sewer system with any illicit connection.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.23 CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (owner/contractor/developer) to do, or
permit, authorize, allow or direct another person to do or fail to do when
required, any of the following:
   (A)   Store any building material, construction equipment and/or equipment
in any proposed or platted public right-of-way;
   (B)   Construct on any lot in the city prior to obtaining a cut and fill
permit. In the review of the cut and fill permit, the City Engineer, or his or
her designee, shall determine if a NOI/SWPPP is required by the owner/
contractor/developer. If required, the NOT shall be submitted to the state’s
Division of Water (DOW), and a copy of the NOI/SWPPP shall be delivered to the
City Engineer’s office prior to the start of construction. The amount of time
between the submittal of the NOI to the DOW and the allowable start of
construction shall be as determined in the current KPDES permit. The erosion
control procedures employed in the field shall be those necessary to prevent
pollution, as specified in the current KPDES permit, the state’s Erosion
Prevention and Sediment Control Field Guide and the state’s best management
practices (BMPs) for controlling erosion, sediment and pollutant runoff from
construction sites, and shall be maintained and updated as needed. The SWPPP
shall be updated as often as necessary in order to accurately portray the
erosion control systems in the field at all times. A copy of the NOI/SWPPP
shall be kept on the job site and shall be made available to the City
Engineer’s staff at all times. The NOT shall be submitted to the DOW upon
completion of the construction project and final stabilization of the soil has
taken place and is functional based on an on-site project closeout meeting with
the City Engineer’s staff. A copy of the NOT shall also be submitted to the
City Engineer’s office;
   (C)   If the NOI/SWPPP/NOT is deemed required by the City Engineer, it shall
be unlawful to operate a construction site without employing a qualified
inspector to inspect the entire site and maintain all inspection records as
required by the current KPDES permit. All inspection reports shall be kept on
site and shall be made available to the City Engineer’s representative at all
times; and
   (D)   If any construction does not require the NOI/SWPPP/NOT, it shall be
unlawful to fail to maintain all erosion control devices as per the public
improvement specifications. These erosion control devices shall include, but
are not limited to rock runouts, sediment transport control devices and all
other best management practices as appropriate for the site conditions.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.24 POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT IN NEW DEVELOPMENT,
REDEVELOPMENT AND EXISTING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Depositing of material in public and/or private systems. It shall be
unlawful for any person to do, or permit, authorize or direct another person to
do or fail to do when required, any of the following:
      (1)   Erect, construct, deposit or plant, any building, outbuilding,
shed, fence, playground equipment, concrete, landscape berm, trees, bushes,
shrubs, flowers, rocks, dirt or any other substance or structure that covers,
alters, obstructs, impairs or encroaches on a public stormwater drainage
system;
      (2)   Cover, alter, excavate, fill, obstruct, encroach on or deposit any
concrete, steel, pollutants, building materials, yard waste or construct ramps
of any kind in the guttered curb of any street or alley located within public
right-of-way; or
      (3)   Cover, alter, excavate, fill, divert, obstruct, impair, encroach on
or deposit any solid waste, debris, yard waste, pollutants, wastewater
(sewage), concrete, building materials, tires, appliances, animal carcasses or
any other substance, material or obstruction of any kind in an open ditch,
sewer or stormwater inlet and catch basin, manhole, right-of-way curb and
gutter or over, under or across any public storm sewer system.
   (B)   Grading/regrading private property. It shall be unlawful for any
person to do, or permit, authorize or direct another person to grade or regrade
any private property in such manner as to obstruct, divert or impede the
natural flow of surface stormwater across said person’s property or adjoining
properties.
   (C)   Construction of private storm sewer systems. All private storm sewer
systems shall be in place, functioning and certified by a licensed professional
engineer prior to the occupation of any property improvements by the owner. It
shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to construct any part of a private
storm sewer system that has not been approved in advance by the City Engineer
on any development or site plan.
   (D)   Maintenance of private storm sewer systems. The owner of the property
on which the private storm sewer system, which includes but is not limited to,
the conveyance system, detention/retention basins and water quality units, is
located, shall, at the written request of the City Engineer, employ a licensed
professional engineer to certify that the private storm sewer system is being
maintained at the level of service for which it was originally designed. If a
determination is made that the property owner is not maintaining the private
system at or above the level of service indicated in the original design, a
notice of deficiency shall be issued and the standard escalated process of
enforcement initiated. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to
maintain any part of a private storm sewer system that has been approved by the
City Engineer as part of any development or site plan. The system shall be
maintained at all times to the level of service it was designed for.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The acts, omissions and conditions prohibited in
sections of this subchapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances that are
inimical to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Responsibility of property owner to remove or abate public nuisance.
The owner(s) of property shall be responsible for the removal or abatement, at
the property owner’s sole expense, of any obstruction, impediment or
encroachment under, over or across any public stormwater drainage system on the
owner’s property, that is prohibited in sections above and in existence at the
time of the adoption of this subchapter. It shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector, as soon as the Building Inspector ascertains the existence of an
unlawful obstruction or encroachment on any public stormwater drainage system,
to forthwith notify in person, or in writing by certified mail, return receipt
requested as stated below, the record owner of the property on which the public
stormwater drainage system is located and/or the holder of the NOI, to remove
or abate the unlawful condition, obstruction or encroachment within the time
specified in the written notice, except in the case of an emergency approved
and declared by the City Manager, in which case the notice given shall be the
notice which is reasonable and necessary under the circumstances. Failure of
the owner of the property to actually receive the notice required herein shall
in no way invalidate the provisions of this subchapter or affect the liability
of such owner for the cost of removing or abating the public nuisance found to
exist on the owner’s property.
   (C)   City may abate nuisance; notice of abatement and assessment, lien. If
the property owner fails to remove or abate the nuisance in the manner and
according to the specifications directed by the Building Inspector, within the
time permitted therefore, the city may proceed to remove or abate the public
nuisance. A record of the entire cost associated therewith, including labor and
materials, shall be transmitted to the City Engineer who shall, upon approval
thereof, assess the cost of the removal or abatement of the public nuisance
against the owner(s) of the property improved thereby, by sending the property
owner a written “notice of abatement and assessment” directing said property
owner(s) to reimburse the city in full for the cost of abatement, within 30
days of receipt thereof. If the property owner or owners fail to comply with
the “notice of abatement and assessment” and do not indemnify the city for the
cost of removing or abating the public nuisance within the prescribed time
period, the city shall have a lien against the property improved thereby for
the reasonable value of labor and materials utilized to abate the public
nuisance. The lien shall be as follows.
      (1)   The city shall have a lien against any property or properties
finally determined by the Building Inspector to be in violation of this
subchapter to secure the payment and recovery of the reasonable value of labor
and materials used to abate the violation, including fines, charges, costs,
penalties and/or fees, including administrative fees. The lien shall be
superior to and have priority over, all other subsequent liens on the property
except state, county, school board, city taxes and nuisance abatement liens
lawfully imposed under KRS 72.720.
      (2)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The
lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall
bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
      (3)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (B) above, the
person found to have committed the violation shall be personally liable for the
amount of all fines, charges, costs, penalties and/or fees, including
administrative fees assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees
incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of this subchapter. The
city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or
structure who has received a notice of deficiency, to sell, transfer, mortgage,
lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until
the requirements listed in the notice of violation have been complied with, or
until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or
lessee a true copy of any notice of violation issued by the City Engineer and
shall furnish to the City Engineer a signed and notarized statement from the
grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such
notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the necessary corrections and repairs required by such notice of
violation.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.26 NOTIFICATION.
   All notification shall be served in person to the owner(s) of the property
according to the records in the office of the property valuation administrator,
or in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (A)   Notice of deficiency (NOD). The Building Inspector’s office shall have
authority to inspect any site that it deems to be in violation of this
subchapter. If any site violates any portion of this subchapter, a written NOD
shall be delivered to the violator. The violator shall be given seven calendar
days, or as directed by the City Engineer or his or her designee, to correct
the deficiency per the details as specified in the NOD.
   (B)   Notice of violation level I (NOV I). The Building Inspector’s office
shall issue a NOV I to either the holder of the NOI or the owner(s) of any site
that has been previously cited, does not comply with the terms of the NOD
within the time period specified or violates the provisions of this subchapter
to an extent the public health and safety is at risk. The violator shall be
given three calendar days, or as directed by the Building Inspector or his or
her designee, to correct the deficiency per the details as specified in the NOV
I.
   (C)   Notice of violation level II (NOV II): Stop work order. The City
Engineer’s office shall issue a NOV II to either the holder of the NOI or the
owner(s) of any site that has been previously cited, does not comply with the
terms of the NOV I within the time period specified, or violates the provisions
of this subchapter to an extent the public health and safety is at risk. The
violator shall be given a stop work order. At this point, the violator shall
not work on any item on the site other than to take actions necessary to
correct the violation. The violator shall be given seven calendar days, or as
directed by the City Engineer or his or her designee, to correct the deficiency
per the details as specified in the NOV II. If the corrective actions are
taken, then the stop work order shall be rescinded, and work can continue on
the site.
   (D)   Notice of violation level III (NOV III). The Building Inspector’s
office shall issue a NOV III to either the holder of the NOI or the owner(s) of
any site that has been previously cited, does not comply with the terms of the
NOV II within the time period specified, or violates the provisions of this
subchapter to an extent the public health and safety is at risk.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Criminal penalty. The owner or holder of any property found to
be in violation of any section of §§
54.20 through
54.26 of this code and upon issuance and receipt of the NOV III, shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 12
months, or both. Each day (24-hour period) on which a violation occurs or
continues shall constitute a separate offense under §§
54.20 through
54.26 of this code.
      (2)   Civil penalty. As an alternative to, or in conjunction with the
penalty set forth herein, any person found to be in violation of §§
54.20 through
54.26 of this code, and upon receipt of the NOV III, may also be assessed a
civil penalty not to exceed $1,000, payable to the city, within 20 days of the
issuance of the citation. Civil penalties not paid within the time prescribed
herein may be recovered by the city in a civil action, in the same manner
provided for the collection of a civil debt.
      (3)   Legal and equitable remedies. In addition to the penalties
prescribed herein, the city may institute appropriate actions or proceedings at
law or equity, including mandatory injunctive relief, to enforce the provisions
of §§
54.20 through
54.26 of this code and/or to correct violations thereof. The conviction and
punishment of any person hereunder shall not relieve said person of the
responsibility to abate or correct prohibited nuisances, encroachments or
conditions or to remove prohibited obstructions, structures, impediments,
improvements or any other material or object from any public storm sewer
system, nor prevent the enforcement, correction or removal thereof.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-19-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Towing services; rotation list; fee schedule
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
70.40   Definition
   
70.41   License required
   
70.42   Taxes
Commercial Vehicle License
   
70.55   License required
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Chapter 72
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 91
   Traffic rules, see
Chapter 71
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of the portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 of this code or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this
traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of
any vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States Government, the
state, county or city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic
code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, every person driving any animal on any roadway and every person
driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this
traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except the provisions of
this traffic code which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended
order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 TOWING SERVICES; ROTATION LIST; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   (1)   The Police Department shall retain a nonexclusive franchise
towing service rotation list of not more than four towing services, all of whom
first must meet the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The towing services granted nonexclusive franchises shall be
selected by competitive bidding by the City Council on the basis of the amount
of the franchise fee offered and the capacity of the bidders to meet the needs
of the Police Department and the persons whose vehicles are towed.
      (3)   When other qualifications are equal, consideration of the amount,
variety and quality of equipment will be considered in limiting the
nonexclusive franchises to four.
      (4)   Each franchise shall be awarded by the City Council for five years
from the date of issue.
   (B)   Vacancies in the towing service rotation list may, at the option of
the City Council, be filled in the same manner as in division (A) above.
   (C)   Towing services needed by the Police Department will be called in
rotation order, unless in the judgment of officers on the scene for the health
and safety of the public, other choices are deemed necessary.
   (D)   The towing service must comply with all rules and regulations as set
forth by the state’s Motor Vehicle Enforcement Department.
   (E)   Each tow is $125, as set by tow companies. Fees include a $50 fee for
the first day, a $25 administrative fee, $25 storage fee and $25 for each
additional day.
   (F)   Towing services must meet all state insurance requirements and
specifically $100,000 in tow (or hook-on) insurance as required by the state
police and garage keeper insurance with a minimum coverage of $50,000 to
protect owners of vehicles in storage.
   (G)   Tow vehicles must meet the requirements of the state police and
failure to maintain towing equipment or provide adequately trained and
responsible drivers will be reason for removal from the towing list.
   (H)   All vehicles towed on orders by the Police Department can be released
to the owners only with a signed release form from the city.
   (I)   Tow trucks must respond to a call site within 20 minutes unless in the
opinion of the Police Chief there are extenuating circumstances. Failure to
respond within the prescribed time will be reason to remove the towing service
from the towing service list.
   (J)   The chosen tow services shall pay to the city a franchise fee of a
minimum of 15% of all fees and charges collected and for all receipts of
unclaimed vehicles sold for scrap. The fees are to be paid monthly within ten
days after the end of each calendar month to the City Clerk/Treasurer. Late
fees will draw a penalty of 2% per each month or portion thereof, compounded
monthly, and the offending towing service may be suspended or removed from the
list of towing services. Failure to pay fees shall constitute a lien on the
property of the towing service.
   (K)   Towing services removed from the franchise rotation list will still be
liable for all fees on vehicles already towed or in storage.
   (L)   Towing services removed from the list may be reinstated only with the
approval of the City Council.
   (M)   Towing services on the towing services rotation list shall tow city
vehicles without charge whenever the need arises within the city and its
immediate environs, and, on the request of the Police Department, shall tow
impounded vehicles stored outside the county to the city’s police station for
examination under the county’s procedures, and if necessary in the opinion of
the Police Chief, returned.
   (N)   The rotation list notwithstanding, requests of vehicle owners/
operators for a specified towing service operating in the area will be honored
on accident scenes where the owners/operators are not charged, as long as the
requests do not interfere with traffic or would not otherwise endanger or
affect adversely the rights of other motorists or citizens.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “go,” “caution” or “stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
the signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “caution” when shown following the green or
“go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield right-of-way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “yield right-of-
way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “yield right-of-way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including
signs, shall be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation,
shall be uniform and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly.
   (B)   All traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance, and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 70.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. All agencies for the transportation of persons or property
over or upon the public highways of this city and all vehicles passing over or
upon the highways, excepting road rollers, road graders, farm tractors,
vehicles on which power shovels are mounted, such other construction equipment
customarily impractical for the transportation of persons or property upon the
highways and such vehicles as travel exclusively upon rails.
(Prior Code, § 70.35)
§ 70.41 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, partnership or
corporation, residing or situated within the city, to use or operate any
automobile or motor vehicle over and upon the streets of the city, in
connection with a business conducted or regular occupation followed, within the
city limits or as a means of conveyance to and from a position, job or labor
for which remuneration is received from the business or occupation in the city,
without obtaining a license and paying the tax provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 TAXES.
   Motor vehicle taxes and property taxes shall apply to motor vehicles only;
no city license fees shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 70.37)
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE LICENSE
§ 70.55 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person or business entity who unloads goods, commodities or merchandise
or any kind of other material by truck or other motor vehicle or other
conveyance for the purpose of making a profit within the corporate limits of
the city shall obtain a license for the privilege of using the public ways of
the city. The license required shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer on
forms provided for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 70.50) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person or business entity who fails to pay the fees required by §
70.55 within 30 days of the due date shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $500 and each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
   
71.06   Motor vehicles in parks
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the
vehicle at any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.
   (B)   A vehicle from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in
a manner as to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction
of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit shall be 20 mph on all city streets except as
otherwise posted by the city or state, and except on those streets listed in
Chapter 74 Schedule I of this code.
   (B)   The speed limit shall be 15 mph in all school zones.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined as set forth and prescribed in KRS 189.394, which is
incorporated herein and made a part thereof by reference.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 MOTOR VEHICLES IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle in
the city recreational areas, including but not limited to Fort Duffield Park,
Salt River Boat Dock and Veterans Memorial Park, except on roads specifically
intended for motor vehicles in those areas and at times specified as normal
operation hours.
   (B)   As used in this section the term MOTOR VEHICLES shall include, but is
not limited to: Cars; trucks; buses; motorcycles; motor bikes; mini bikes; or
any other similar motor vehicle. The term shall not include all vehicles
operated by fire, emergency, forest service, medical and law enforcement
officials.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)    The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in a
manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or a near
a highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) shall be subject to revocation of his or her operator’s license
under KRS 186.500.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle, or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and stop
and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by
the officer.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (C)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and/or
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.55 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity
shall carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.50)
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.06 of this code shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.36 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $60 nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more
than 30 days or both.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 91
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   (1)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except
that wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes.
      (2)   The backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all times and on
all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed interferes with the
use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road space within ten feet of
the center line of the street.
   (D)   (1)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places,
requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a
certain portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking
shall not be established where the roadway space required therefor would be
within ten feet of the center line of any street.
      (2)   Diagonal parking places shall be designated by suitable signs, and
shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required angle and the width of
the roadway space within which the vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02 of this code;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (5)   Within an intersection or crosswalk;
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties; or
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign or traffic-
control device.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) (Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle
on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or
longer.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.50 through
71.61
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27 of this code.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two wheels of the
motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for the period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone, nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in a manner as to constitute a
traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   The city shall maintain an impound lot for the storage of each
automobile, motorcycle, truck and other miscellaneous vehicles impounded within
the city.
   (B)   The lot shall have storage facilities available to house all vehicles
towed by contract wreckers.
   (C)   The impound lot shall be secured in such a manner as to preclude
tampering with vehicles stored therein and the city shall be required to take
all necessary steps to prevent damage to vehicles while in the custody of the
city.
   (D)   The city shall charge a storage fee of $25 per day for each day of
impoundment.
   (E)   Per contract with towing company, the city will pay all towing fees.
   (F)   In addition to storage fees, vehicles released from impoundment by the
city shall be subject to an administrative fee payable to the city in the
amount of $25 for each automobile, motorcycle, truck and other miscellaneous
vehicle released. In the event that the total amount of towing, storage and
administrative fees accumulated for an impounded vehicle under this section
exceeds the fair market value of the impounded vehicle, the owner or authorized
agent of the owner shall pay the city in an amount equal to the fair market
value of said vehicle to release the vehicle from impoundment, subject to the
approval of the Mayor.
   (G)   This fee must be paid in full by cash or credit/debit card before the
vehicle will be released from impoundment.
   (H)   Vehicles will only be released to owner during the business hours of
City Hall, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
   (I)   Day one of charges starts the first day of impoundment.
   (J)   If within ten business days of impoundment the motor vehicle has not
been claimed, or a hearing has not been requested pursuant to KRS 82.625,
notice shall be mailed by certified mail to the registered owner if known, and
to lien holder(s) of record if any, affording the parties the right to claim
the vehicle within ten days from the date of notice or request a hearing
pursuant to KRS 82.625. The notice shall state that if no hearing is requested,
the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned unless the charges thereon are paid
within 45 days of receipt of notice. Owner shall pay full amount of tow bill in
order to receive belongings from vehicle.
   (K)    After 45 days from the date of notice required by KRS 186.020, an
impounded motor vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and the vehicle shall escheat
to that law enforcement agency.
   (L)   If the vehicle is judged suitable for use, the law enforcement agency
may obtain a certificate of registration and ownership from the County Clerk
pursuant to KRS 186.020, and may either use the motor vehicle for governmental
purposes or sell the motor vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder.
However, if the motor vehicle is not suitable for use, it may be sold for scrap
or junk value. If sold to the highest bidder, the seller shall provide to the
purchaser documentation confirming that the general notice procedures for
public sale in compliance with KRS Chapter 424 were followed.
(Prior Code, § 72.25) (Ord. 2018-15, passed 11-12-2018)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority or private person or
business for any reason, or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority or by private person or business, the police, other authority
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the state’s
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281, and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) above by certified mail to the registered owner
at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as
defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number and identification number of the vehicle,
the location of the vehicle and the amount of reasonable charges due on the
vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2)) (Prior Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles in
either a private capacity or for the city who has substantially complied with
the requirements of §
72.26 of this code shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for the reasonable or
agreed charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as it remains in his
or her possession. If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed
charges for storing or towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the motor
vehicle may be sold to pay the charges after the owner has been notified by
certified mail ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the
proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient
to satisfy accrued charges for towing, transporting and storage, the sale and
collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid towing, transporting and storage charges
by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien shall be
subject to prior recorded liens.
(KRS 376.275(3)) (Prior Code, § 72.22)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition no person shall park
any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route.
However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and
prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is
to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency
route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The prohibition
of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he or she
announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On the street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (Prior Code, § 72.99)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Motorcycles
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.15   Purpose
   
73.16   Inspection and permits
   
73.17   Inspection requirements
   
73.18   Operation on city streets; restrictions
   
73.19   Definition
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any other toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or
fasten or attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations to
allow for safe and lawful operation of all-terrain vehicles upon city streets
within the city as an alternative means of transportation.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 7-8-2012)
§ 73.16 INSPECTION AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person who intends to operate an ATV on any city street within
city limits shall obtain an annually issued, non-transferrable operator’s
permit from the city’s Police Department for a fee of $10.
   (B)   (1)   All permits expire on April 30 of each year.
      (2)   New permits are required as of May 1 of each year.
      (3)   A penalty of $5 will be charged for all permits not purchased by
April 30 of each year.
   (C)   The city’s Police Department shall issue a non-transferrable
operator’s permit upon completion of a vehicle safety inspection.
   (D)   (1)   No permit shall be issued without proof of state-required
minimum liability insurance per KRS 304.39-060, which covers said ATV.
      (2)   Proof of insurance shall be with the ATV at all times of operation
on city streets.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 7-8-2012)
§ 73.17 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All ATVs shall be inspected by the city’s Police Department to ensure that
they comply with the following safety regulations.
   (A)   (1)   A standard noise-reducing muffler shall be used.
      (2)   No cut-outs or straight pipes will be allowed.
   (B)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of the ATV and to
stop and hold the ATV under any condition of operation.
   (C)   At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with sufficient
intensity to reveal a person or vehicle at a safe distance of 100 feet ahead
during normal atmospheric conditions while the ATV is operated.
   (D)   At least one red tail lamp with working brake light, visible during
hours of darkness and during normal atmospheric conditions, shall be attached
to the ATV.
   (E)   Any ATV without adequate front and rear lighting must display an
orange “slow-moving vehicle” triangle placard.
   (F)   Tires must have sufficient tread for safe use on city streets.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 7-8-2012)
§ 73.18 OPERATION ON CITY STREETS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The operator of any ATV on any city street shall obey all state motor
vehicle traffic rules and regulations (such as stopping at stop signs and
obeying speed limits) as well as all manufacturers’ recommendations for said
ATV.
   (B)   No person operating an ATV on any city street shall:
      (1)   Operate an ATV without having a valid driver’s license in the
operator’s possession;
      (2)   Operate an ATV between sunset and sunrise without approved front
and rear lighting;
      (3)   Carry a passenger except on a seat attached to the ATV;
      (4)   Operate an ATV on any sidewalk intended for pedestrian travel;
      (5)   Operate an ATV on the private property of another without the
written and dated permission of that property owner;
      (6)   Operate an ATV on school grounds; or
      (7)   Operate an ATV in any public park.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 7-8-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. Any highway, street, alley or right-of-way owned and
maintained by the city (Mulberry Street, Elm Street, Riverview Drive, Short
Street, Geoghegan Street, Southview Drive, 15th Street, South Street, North 2nd
Street, South 3rd Street, South 4th Street, South 5th Street, South 6th Street,
South 7th Street, South 8th Street, South 9th Street, South 10th Street, South
12th Street, South 13th Street, South 14th Street, North 2nd Street, North 3rd
Street, North 4th Street, North 5th Street, North 6th Street, North 7th Street,
North 8th Street, North 9th Street, North 10th Street, North 11th Street, North
12th Street, North 13th Street, North 14th Street, Salt River Drive and Ft.
Duffield Road). (Dixie Highway and Main Street are owned and maintained by the
state and are not permitted to travel on.)
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 7-8-2012)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.04 of this code shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be
fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
73.15 through
73.19 of this code for which no other penalty is specifically provided shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20 and not more than
$500.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 7-8-2012)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Left turn only
      
III.   One-way direction
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the following streets at a
speed greater than that indicated.
 
Street                       Location                    Speed Limit Ord. No.
Main Street                                              35 mph
Salt River Drive             From 31-W to the Salt River 35 mph      520.2
                             Recreational Area
Salt River Recreational Area Inside the park             15 mph      520.2
South Street                                             15 mph      1996-09
 
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be fined as set forth and prescribed in KRS 189.394, which is
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sched. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. LEFT TURN ONLY.
   On the following streets, left turn only shall be permitted in the locations
indicated.
 
Street       Location Where Turn Permitted         Ord.
South Street For westbound traffic at Sixth Street 1996-09
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sched. II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY DIRECTION.
   On the following streets, traffic will flow in a one-way direction.
 
Street           Direction
Geoghegan Street West to east from 14th Street to 13th Street
Mulberry Street  East to west from 11th Street to 13th Street
 
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 6-11-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   UNIFORM RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD AND TENANT ACT
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   HOUSE NUMBERING
      
96.   NUISANCES
      
97.   PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Care and Control of Animals
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Control of dogs
   
90.03   Animals running at large
   
90.04   Owner to provide necessities
   
90.05   Restraint by leash or chain; specifications
   
90.06   Abandonment
   
90.07   Cruelty to animals
   
90.08   Cruelty or exhibition fighting prohibited
   
90.09   Killing dogs, cats for food or fur prohibited
   
90.10   Mutilation of animals
   
90.11   Sexual acts with animals
   
90.12   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
Vicious Dogs
   
90.25   Alternate opinion of classification as vicious
   
90.26   Control of vicious dogs
   
90.27   Enforcement of restrictions on vicious dogs
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.40   Impoundment
   
90.41   Removal of animal in immediate danger
   
90.42   Confiscation of victimized animal
   
90.43   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
CARE AND CONTROL OF ANIMALS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner, or his or
her agent. The ABANDONMENT shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights
and claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Not restrained by leash, cord, chain or otherwise confined in an
enclosure.
   DOG. This term shall be intended to mean both male and female.
   DOG WARDEN. This term shall be interchangeable with ANIMAL WARDEN and ANIMAL
CONTROL OFFICER.
   ENCLOSURE. An uncovered fence or structure of at least seven feet in height
or a covered fence or structure of sufficient height to allow the dog to stand
erect without touching the top or cover forming or causing an enclosure
suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and suitable to confine a
vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may be taken by the owner
or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog. Further, the fence or
structure shall be sufficiently embedded in the ground to prevent the dog from
digging under the fence or structure. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed
and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed
to prevent the dog from escaping from the enclosure.
   KEEPER. Any person to whom a vicious dog is entrusted.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a dog.
   RESTRAINT. A vicious dog shall be deemed to be under RESTRAINT if on the
premises of the owner or keeper and confined in a secure enclosure as
previously defined or under the control of the owner or keeper and securely
muzzled and restrained with a chain or braided leather, nylon or manilla lead
or leash having a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding
three feet in length.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
other domestic animals by virtue of a known propensity to endanger life by an
unprovoked assault or bite so as to cause serious bodily harm;
      (2)   Any dog which when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing manner
approaches any person in an attitude of attack upon the streets, sidewalks or
any public grounds or places;
      (3)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals;
      (4)   Any dog which bites (to the extent of puncturing or severely
bruising skin), inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks a human being or
domestic animal without provocation on public or private property;
      (5)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting or any dog trained for dog fighting;
      (6)   Any dog which has previously attacked or bitten a human being other
than under the type of circumstances that would be justifiable hereunder;
      (7)   Any dog which has behaved in a manner that the owner or keeper
thereof knows or should reasonably know that the dog is possessed of tendencies
to attack or to bite human beings other than the type which would be justified
hereunder;
      (8)   Any dog certified by a doctor of veterinary medicine, after
observation thereof, as posing a danger to human life or property if not kept
in the manner required by this chapter upon the basis of reasonable medical
probability;
      (9)   Any dog which has been classified as vicious by the county dog
warden or a peace officer;
      (10)   Any dog which has been trained as an attack or guard dog, except
dogs which are employed by any police department within the commonwealth; or
      (11)   An animal shall not be deemed VICIOUS solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks or menaces anyone assaulting its owner or
keeper or any person or other animal who has tormented or abused it;
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in the defense of any attack from a
person or other animal upon its owner or any other person;
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal; or
         (d)   Where a person has broken into or entered, without permission,
the enclosure of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 CONTROL OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city
any dog that barks or yelps or otherwise makes noise as to disturb the peace
and quiet of the people in the neighborhood or area where the dog is kept.
Verification of more than one person from at least two different households
shall be required, before this provision takes effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to entice a dog from a yard or enclosure of its
owner or keeper or to bring any dog into the city for the purpose of impounding
or disposing of the same or to remove a muzzle or license tag from any dog
without the consent of the owner, keeper or custodian thereof.
   (C)   No owner, custodian, possessor or harborer shall permit any dog to run
at large other than on its owner’s premises at any time unless under the direct
control of the owner, custodian, possessor or harborer.
   (D)   The owner, custodian, possessor or harborer of every dog shall, at all
times, keep the dog either:
      (1)   Confined on the owner’s premises within an enclosure which it
cannot escape;
      (2)   Firmly secured by means of a collar or chain or other device so
that it cannot escape and stray from the premises on which it is secured; or
      (3)   Under the immediate control of the person. The term UNDER IMMEDIATE
CONTROL is defined as the power to manage and direct the dog and is not limited
to physical control of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 OWNER TO PROVIDE NECESSITIES.
   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animal with good wholesome food
and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care when
needed to prevent suffering and humane care and treatment. Any owner of animals
shall maintain a clean and healthful shelter and living area for any animal
being kept, which area shall be free of accumulated waste and debris so that
the animal shall be free to walk or lie down without coming in contact with any
waste or debris. All shelters or living areas must be cleaned and maintained
regularly so as to promote proper health for the animals being kept. All living
areas shall be constructed and maintained to promote proper drainage of rain
water to prevent the accumulation of mud and/or water. Shelters shall be
constructed to protect the animal from precipitation and of a material which
provides insulation from temperature extremes. In addition to the shelter, a
shaded area shall also be provided by means of other structures, trees or
awnings. The shelter shall have a floor augmented with resting boards.
Insulating bedding materials shall be provided during inclement weather
extremes.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RESTRAINT BY LEASH OR CHAIN; SPECIFICATIONS.
   If any animal is restricted by a chain, leash or similar restraint, it shall
be designed and placed as defined under “restraint” in §
90.01 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 90.05)
§ 90.06 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   No person shall abandon any animal, abandonment consisting of: Leaving
an animal for a period in excess of 24 hours, without providing for someone to
feed, water and check on the animal’s condition; leaving an animal by the
roadside or other area; or leaving an animal on either public or private
property without the property owner’s consent.
   (B)   In the event that an animal is found so abandoned, the animal may be
taken by a county dog warden or peace officer and impounded in a shelter, and
there confined in a humane manner.
   (C)   The animal, if taken from private property, shall be kept for not less
than the prescribed period in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
90.40 of this code. In the event that an animal is so abandoned, the owner or
keeper, if any, whom he or she has charged with the animal’s care, shall be
subject to a citation for violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willingly or maliciously inflict
unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture, abuse or cruelly beat, strike or
abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or neglect, cause or inflict any
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter, whether the animal belongs to
such person or to another, except that reasonable force may be employed to
drive away vicious animals or trespassing animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the second degree, see KRS 525.130
§ 90.08 CRUELTY OR EXHIBITION FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow cruelty to be inflicted on an animal.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall cause or permit any dog fight or other combat
between animals.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), NEGLECT, CRUEL, ILL TREATMENT
AND TORMENT OF AN ANIMAL shall be defined as a failure by a person to adhere to
the requirements and provisions of enforcement.
      (3)   In the event there is a reasonable cause to suspect that an animal
is being beaten, cruelly ill-treated, neglected or tormented or involved in dog
fight or other combat, custody of an animal may be taken by a county dog
warden, peace officer or humane officer and impounded in a shelter or other
facility maintained by a humane society. The animal shall be held as evidence
and confined in such facility in a humane manner.
      (4)   Upon finding by a court that the animal has been neglected, beaten,
cruelly ill-treated or tormented or involved in a dog fight or other combat
between animals, the animal shall become the property of the county.
   (C)   No person shall own, possess, keep or train any dog with the intent
that the dog shall be engaged in exhibition of fighting. In the event that a
person shall own, possess, keep or train any animal with the intent that the
animal shall be engaged in an exhibition of fighting, he or she shall be liable
for citation for violation of this chapter and subject to the penalties under §
90.27 of this code.
   (D)   No person shall be present at any dog fight or combat between animals.
In the event that a person is present at a dog fight or combat between animals,
he or she shall be liable for citation for violation of this chapter and
subject to the penalties provided in §
90.27 of this code.
   (E)   Any person who is found present at a dog fight or combat between
animals, and who is charged with being a spectator in violation of this
chapter, and who is in possession of, and/or is the owner of an animal of the
same species as that involved in the animal fight, shall be charged with intent
to engage in an exhibition of fighting in violation of this chapter. The animal
shall be confiscated if found on the premises or in the immediate area of the
dog fight or combat between animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.09 KILLING DOGS, CATS FOR FOOD OR FUR PROHIBITED.
   No person shall raise or kill a dog or cat for food or the skin or fur.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 MUTILATION OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall mutilate any animal whether dead or alive. This provision
does not apply to accepted livestock practices concerning humane slaughter.
(Prior Code, § 90.10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 SEXUAL ACTS WITH ANIMALS.
   No person shall engage or cause or allow any other person to engage in a
sexual act with any animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall: Sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.12) Penalty, see §
90.99
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.25 ALTERNATE OPINION OF CLASSIFICATION AS VICIOUS.
   (A)   Should any dog be classified as vicious by the county dog warden, a
peace officer or by a doctor of veterinary medicine, and should the owner
desire to challenge this classification, then the owner/keeper may engage the
services of a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, all costs of which are to
be borne by the owner/keeper of the dog in question.
   (B)   The alternate opinion must be acquired and completed within 48 hours
of the initial classification of the dog as being vicious.
(Prior Code, § 90.25)
§ 90.26 CONTROL OF VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or
harbor within the city, a vicious dog that shall bite or fiercely attack any
person or domestic animal while outside of its owner’s yard or enclosure or
real estate. This section shall not apply where a person shall break into or
enter without the permission the premises or enclosure of the dog and be
pursued therefrom and attacked or bitten by the dog.
   (B)   All vicious dogs shall be confined in an enclosure. It shall be
unlawful for any owner or keeper to maintain a vicious dog upon any premises
which does not have a locked enclosure.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to allow any vicious dog
to be outside of the dwelling of the owner or keeper or outside of the
enclosure unless the owner or keeper has the vicious dog under proper
restraint, and under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper
of the vicious dog.
   (D)   The owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall display a sign on his or
her premises warning that there is a vicious dog on the premises. The sign
shall be visible and capable of being read from the public street. The sign
shall be a minimum of two square feet in area.
   (E)   The owner or keeper shall immediately notify the county dog warden and
the Police Department if a vicious dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has
attacked another animal or has attacked a human being, or has died.
   (F)   The county dog warden or peace officer is hereby empowered to make
whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and any county dog warden or peace officer is hereby empowered
to seize and impound any vicious dog whose owner or keeper fails to comply with
the provisions hereof, subject to the right of the owner or keeper to contest
the seizure or impoundment, as provided in this chapter, in the district court.
   (G)   In the event that the owner or keeper of the dog refuses to surrender
the dog to the county dog warden, the county dog warden may obtain a search
warrant from a judge of the county district court to seize the dog upon the
execution of the warrant.
   (H)   No person shall walk or exercise a vicious dog within 1,000 feet of a
school, day care, day nursery, playground, hospital or fairground.
   (I)   No more than two vicious dogs may be kept at a singular site or
residence. This section shall not apply to duly licensed kennels.
   (J)   No vicious dog may be kept on a chain tied to a fixed point outside an
enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 90.26) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS ON VICIOUS DOGS.
   In the event that a public law enforcement officer or the county dog warden
has probable cause to believe that a vicious dog is being harbored in the city
in violation of this chapter, he or she may:
   (A)   Order the violation immediately corrected and cite the owner or keeper
to appear in court for the violation; or
   (B)   (1)   If the violation cannot be immediately corrected and the dog is
posing an imminent serious threat to human beings or other domestic animals,
the dog may be seized and impounded, in which case the owner or keeper will be
cited to appear in court for the violation. At the owner’s or keeper’s request
and expense, the impoundment may be at a veterinarian or licensed kennel of the
owner’s or keeper’s choosing.
      (2)   If the court rules that the dog is not vicious as defined, it will
be released to the owner or keeper upon payment to the county dog warden of the
expense of keeping the dog, pursuant to a schedule of the costs maintained by
the county dog warden.
      (3)   If the court rules that it is vicious as defined, the dog will be
released to the owner or keeper only after payment of any fees and penalties,
and upon presentation of proof by the owner or keeper that the dog will now be
kept restrained or confined as specified in this chapter.
      (4)   If, within seven days following the order regarding a vicious dog,
the owner or keeper of a vicious dog fails to either provide proof that the dog
will be kept restrained or confined in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter or fails to reclaim it after impoundment and pay the fees and
penalties, the dog may be humanely euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 90.27)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.40 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog found running at large within the city limits, unless under
direct control of the owner, custodian, possessor or harborer shall be taken up
by the county dog warden and/or other proper authority, and impounded in the
shelter designated by the county’s animal shelter and there confined in a
humane manner for a period of not less than five days unless sooner claimed by
its owner, custodian or person entitled thereto.
   (B)   The county dog warden may humanely destroy or transfer title of all
animals held after the legal detention period in division (A) above has expired
and the animal has not been claimed by its owner, custodian or other person
entitled to the possession thereof provided the person to whom title is being
transferred licenses the dog according to the laws of the commonwealth and
supplies proof of a rabies inoculation for the dog together with the boarding
charges levied by the animal shelter, and in addition thereto the pick-up fee
payable to the city provided below.
   (C)   Any owner, custodian or other person entitled to the possession of a
dog impounded under division (A) above may be claimed by the owner, custodian
or person entitled to possession thereof upon proof that the dog has been or is
licensed, according to the laws of the commonwealth, proof that the dog has
been inoculated against rabies, payment of boarding charges levied by the
county and payment to the county of any fine due.
(Prior Code, § 90.40)
§ 90.41 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL IN IMMEDIATE DANGER.
   Any animal observed by a peace officer or county dog warden to be in
immediate danger may be removed from the situation by the quickest and most
reasonable means available.
(Prior Code, § 90.41)
§ 90.42 CONFISCATION OF VICTIMIZED ANIMAL.
   (A)   (1)   Any animal found involved in a violation of any portion of this
chapter may be confiscated by any county dog warden or peace officer and held
in a humane manner.
      (2)   Upon conviction of this charge by a court of law, all animals so
confiscated shall become the property of the county, and the owner of the
animals shall pay to or reimburse the county all veterinary fees associated
with medical treatment provided the animal while it was in custody.
   (B)   A county dog warden or peace officer shall be allowed reasonable
access to inspect the property of anyone found guilty of violation of any of
the provisions under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.42) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any county dog warden, peace officer, animal control officer or any
officer of the accredited humane society or society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any
animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing
to be injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100) (Prior Code, § 90.43)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Sidewalk construction; restoration
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements
   
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General traffic provisions, see
Chapter 70
   Lots and yards, see
152.060
   Parking regulations, see
Chapter 72
   Required street frontage, see
152.053
   Traffic rules, see
Chapter 71
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Utility work on city property, see §
50.05
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project and shall be issued by the authorized city official.
   (B)   Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the legislative
body, giving the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving,
the area and depth to be excavated and other facts as may be provided for.
   (C)   The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to
cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION; RESTORATION.
   (A)   Any opening for construction or restoration of a pavement or other
surface shall be performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the
authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and
specifications approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without notice to
make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 of this code shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into
the appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee
as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for
restoration services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed
by the city should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk/Treasurer or
other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due
from the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing to take
the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge matters within the city.
Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than seven days nor more than 21
days before the scheduled date of the public hearing and before beginning work
on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing, any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done which has
not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects and any other matter
related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing
for each project.
   (B)   A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100(6), (7)) (Prior Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Obstruction of drainage or natural watercourse, see §
130.03
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice, to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 92: UNIFORM RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD AND TENANT ACT
Section
   
92.01   Adoption of Landlord and Tenant Act
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF LANDLORD AND TENANT ACT.
   KRS 383.505 through 383.705 are hereby adopted by the city as The Uniform
Residential Landlord and Tenant Act and all provisions of KRS 383.505 through
383.705 shall be enacted, and are hereby adopted and made a part of this code,
as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention
   
93.01   Blasting permit
   
93.02   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.03   Fireworks and pyrotechnics; public use
Smoke Detectors
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Smoke detectors required
   
93.17   Type and placement of smoke detectors
   
93.18   Providing, installing and maintaining smoke detectors
   
93.19   Enforcement
   
93.20   Severability; conflict with county regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fees charged to nonresidents for Fire Department services, see §
35.042
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.01 BLASTING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official.
   (B)   The authorized city official, before granting the permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS; PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   No person shall ignite fireworks between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
10:00 a.m. unless specifically permitted by the city.
   (B)   Persons may only use, ignite, fire or explode consumer fireworks on
Memorial Day, July 3, July 4 and the Friday and Saturday that are immediately
preceding and following the July 4 holiday. Use of fireworks will also be
permitted on Labor Day and December 31, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 12:
00 a.m. (midnight) and on January 1 between 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 1:00 a.m.
   (C)   Any person wishing to use, ignite, fire or explode consumer fireworks
any other day or time must notify the city and receive express permission. The
Mayor, or his or her appointee, shall have approval to grant permission.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 7-9-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains two or more dwelling units or any
rooming units, rooms or area designated or used for sleeping purposes either as
a primary use or use on casual occasions. DWELLING shall include a rooming
house, hotels, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories, apartment and/or
condominium buildings.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any group of rooms, located within a building and forming a
single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designed to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating, except single-family residential
units.
   OWNER. Any person, who, alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling unit, without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall have
all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit and a
right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in possession;
or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit
as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate or
duly authorized agent of the owner. Any person thus representing the actual
owner shall be bound to comply with the owner’s obligations contained in this
subchapter.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
ROOMING UNIT may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a motel, a tourist
home, a school dormitory or an apartment building which may or may not have
some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
(Prior Code, § 93.15)
§ 93.16 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   In all non-owner occupied single-family and duplex family residential
units designed or used for sleeping purposes in existence on or about February
15, 1980, smoke detectors powered by a hard wire AC primary power source or a
battery shall be installed and maintained within six months after the effective
date of this subchapter (i.e., November 12, 1980).
   (B)   In all multi-family residential units, rooming houses, tourist homes,
dormitories or other dwellings designed or used for sleeping purposes in
existence on or about February 15, 1980, smoke detectors powered by a hard wire
AC primary power source shall be installed and maintained within one year after
the effective date of this subchapter (i.e., November 12, 1980), except for
owner-occupied, single-family residential units which may utilize smoke
detectors powered by a hard wire AC primary power source or a battery in
compliance with this subchapter. Provided, further, an extension of the time
period set forth above, not to exceed six months, may be granted by the County
Deputy for Code Enforcement upon the showing of a good faith effort by the
owner to comply with the provisions of this subchapter. The extensions will be
granted in cooperation with the recommendation of the Fire Chief or his or her
designated representative for the local fire district wherein the dwellings are
located.
   (C)   Where significant effort has been made by installing battery operated
smoke detectors, the mandatory installation period listed in division (B) above
may be extended for a period not to exceed five years upon formal request by
the affected party to the County Deputy for Code Enforcement, and the approval
of any request shall be made in cooperation with the recommendation of the Fire
Chief or his or her designated representative for the local fire district
wherein the dwelling unit is located.
   (D)   In all hotels and motels in existence on or about February 15, 1980,
battery powered smoke detectors shall be installed and maintained within one
year after the effective date of this subchapter (i.e., November 12, 1980).
(Prior Code, § 93.16) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 TYPE AND PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only ionization or
photoelectric type detectors approved by a nationally recognized testing
laboratory shall be installed.
   (B)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with the applicable
N.F.P.A. standards. Detectors may be ceiling or wall-mounted, provided that if
wall-mounted they shall be within 18 inches, but not closer than 12 inches of
the ceiling.
   (C)   In a dwelling unit which contains a well-defined sleeping room
separated from the other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be
located in the corridor within the unit or interior area giving access to the
rooms used for sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated and/or
where a single smoke detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas,
there shall be a smoke detector installed adjacent to each sleeping area. In a
rooming unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the ceiling.
   (D)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
common areas so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping
areas.
   (E)   In multi-family residential dwellings containing four or more units,
the smoke detectors installed in the common areas and storage areas shall be
installed so that activation of one of the detectors in the common areas or
storage areas shall cause all the detectors within the common areas or storage
areas contained within exterior perimeter walls or separated by fire or party
walls as applicable to be activated to alert.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 PROVIDING, INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing in an operable condition the required detector(s) and for providing
the manufacturer’s maintenance and testing instruments to a tenant.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of detectors, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, which
are located in common areas and/or detectors in rooming units where the tenant
usually has short periods of occupancy (hotels, motels, tourist homes).
   (C)   The tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing the
detector, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, which are within
his or her exclusive control during the life of the tenancy. The tenant shall
be responsible for notifying the owner in writing when a detector(s) becomes
inoperable, and the owner shall have ten days after receipt of the written
notice in which to repair or replace the detector(s) in an operable condition.
Battery replacement in smoke detectors shall be the responsibility of the
tenant until the conversion to a hard wire AC primary power source has been
accomplished as required by §
93.16 of this code.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy in all multi-family residential units and
dormitories, it shall be the duty of the owner to test and ascertain that those
detectors contained in the unit are in operable condition, and if not, the
owner shall be responsible for placing them in operable condition.
   (E)   In all hotels, motels, rooming houses or tourist homes it shall be the
duty of the owner to test the detectors on a regular basis in accordance with
manufacturer’s instructions, and the owner shall be responsible for maintaining
the units in an operable condition. A log of smoke detector inspections and
findings shall be maintained by the owner, and shall be made available to fire
inspectors upon request.
(Prior Code, § 93.18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Deputy for Code Enforcement, or his or her designated
representative, in cooperation with the recommendations of the local fire
official, the Fire Chief or his or her designated representative and the
officials of other departments of the city and county having jurisdiction is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce all provisions of this subchapter and
the final determination concerning compliance herewith shall be the sole
discretion of the County Deputy for Code Enforcement. Upon the presentation of
his or her official credentials, the County Deputy for Code Enforcement may
enter any premises covered by these regulations to perform the duties imposed
upon him or her by these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 93.19)
§ 93.20 SEVERABILITY; CONFLICT WITH COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If any provision of this subchapter or the application thereof to any
person is held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the subchapter, which shall remain in full force and effect;
and to this end, the provisions of this subchapter are severable.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any fire or safety code of the county, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of health and safety shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 93.20)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
93.03 of this code shall be fined no less than $10 and not more than $100 for
each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007; Ord. 2018-07, passed 7-
9-2018)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from, or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Obstruction of drainage or natural watercourse, see §
130.03
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other public
places or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 95: HOUSE NUMBERING
Section
   
95.01   Standards of compliance
   
95.02   Single-family dwellings
   
95.03   Apartment buildings
   
95.04   Commercial and industrial structures
   
95.05   Enforcement by county
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Apartment houses, see
152.077
   Manufactured home parks, see
152.076
   Manufactured housing, see
152.075
§ 95.01 STANDARDS OF COMPLIANCE.
   All residential, commercial and industrial property located in the county
shall conspicuously display the appropriate street address as assigned by the
county’s Department of Public Works in accordance with the standards set out in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.01)
§ 95.02 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The address shall be placed at the front of the residence or in a
manner so as to be visible from the nearest fronting road.
   (B)   The address shall be clearly visible from the nearest fronting road
and kept free and clear of any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility
from the fronting road.
   (C)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least three
inches by two inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest
fronting road, and in a color distinguishable from its background, with the
exception that existing posted numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so
visible as to adequately identify each single-family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The address shall be placed in a manner to ensure prompt
identification of apartment buildings from the nearest fronting road or parking
area, depending upon the location and placement of each particular apartment
building.
   (B)   The addresses shall be clearly visible and kept free and clear of any
obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from the nearest fronting road or
parking area.
   (C)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least three
inches by two inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest
fronting road or parking area, and in a color distinguishable from its
background, with the exception that existing posted numerals shall be
acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify each apartment
building.
   (D)   In the event that apartment buildings located in a complex or
elsewhere are not clearly visible from the nearest public thoroughfare, the
owner of any apartment buildings shall use a system of identification that is
reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and
emergency personnel. The County Code Enforcement Officer or his or her
authorized representative shall have the authority to approve any
identification system proposed in writing by apartment building owners. The
written approval obtained from the County Code Enforcement Officer shall be
prima facie evidence of compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The address shall be placed on all commercial and industrial
structures so as to ensure visibility from the nearest fronting road, and if
the commercial or industrial structure is not visible from the nearest fronting
road, the street address shall be posted in a conspicuous manner so as to be
visible from the nearest fronting road.
   (B)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least five
inches by three inches, or larger if necessary to be visible from the nearest
fronting road, and in a color distinguishable from its background, with the
exception that existing posted numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so
visible as to adequately identify each commercial or industrial structure.
   (C)   In the event that commercial or industrial structures located in a
complex or elsewhere are not clearly visible from the nearest public
thoroughfare, the owner of any structures shall use a system of identification
that is reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and
emergency personnel. The County Code Enforcement Officer or his or her
authorized representative shall have the authority to approve any
identification system proposed in writing by owners of commercial or industrial
structures. The written approval obtained from the County Code Enforcement
Officer shall be prima facie evidence of compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY.
   The County Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized representatives
are hereby designated as enforcement personnel for this chapter, and he, she or
they are hereby vested with the authority to issue citations for violations of
this chapter, which shall be enforced with the intent to ensure that each
residential, commercial and industrial structure in the county is clearly
identified by its assigned street address in order to enable emergency and
other public service personnel to promptly identify the address at all times
during the night and day.
(Prior Code, § 95.05)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
96.03   Violation
   
96.04   Harmonizing
   
96.05   Code Enforcement Officer
   
96.06   Notice
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   DWELLING. Any part of any building or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation or for sleeping by any person.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type or motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purposes.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition, having defective or missing
parts or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of: Want of repair; defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting,
ventilation or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the dwelling.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 96.02 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   The erection, use or maintenance of a building which is unfit for
human habitation. Any building or other structure which is in such a
dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation or kept in such an
unsanitary condition that it is a nuisance to the health of people residing in
the vicinity thereof.
   (B)   Dangerous buildings adjoining streets. Any building, house or
structure so out of repair and dilapidated that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of or cause hurt,
damage or injury to persons or property using or being upon the streets or
public way of the city adjoining the premises, by reason of the collapse of the
building, house or structure by the falling of parts thereof or of objects
therefrom.
   (C)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property using or being upon the streets or public way of
the city adjoining the premises, by reason of the collapse of the building,
house or structure by the falling thereof or parts thereof.
   (D)   Dilapidated buildings. Any building, house or structure which is so
out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch
on fire or communicate fire, or which due to lack of adequate maintenance or
neglect, endangers the public health, welfare or safety or materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent
property.
   (E)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any property of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, makes the property unfit for human habitation or
materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of
adjacent property because of the danger that it will catch or communicate fire,
attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects or blow rubbish into any
street, sidewalk or property of another.
   (F)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emission into the surrounding atmosphere of
odor, dust, smoke or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible.
   (G)   Noise. Emission of noise which is noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwellings or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering
with the ordinary comforts of human existence.
   (H)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (I)   Weeds and grass. The accumulation in piles, bundles or heaps or the
excessive growth of weeds, grass, plants or other vegetation other than trees
or shrubs, and cultivated flowers and gardens, the existence of thistles,
burdock, jimson weeds, ragweed, milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, iron weeds
and all other noxious weeds and rank vegetation in excess of a height of ten
inches.
   (J)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, abandoned wells, shafts, pit, excavation or vault
situated upon private premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (K)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks. The growing and
maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over streets or less than
eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing and maintenance of shrubbery in
excess of three feet in height within the radius of 20 feet from the point
where the curbline of any street intersects the curbline of another street. No
shrub shall be plated between the curbline and the property line of any street
within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curbline of any street
intersects with the curbline of another street.
   (L)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable defensive
odors.
   (M)   Junk; scrap metal. The storage of automobile parts or scrap metal
within the city limits except on the premises authorized by the city for such
purposes.
   (N)   Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles. The parking,
storage, leaving or permitting the parking, storage or leaving of any vehicle
of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, rusted, junked,
partially dismantled or inoperative condition, whether attended or not, within
the city limits, except in a completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-2011) Penalty, see
96.99.
Cross-reference:
   Animals, generally, see
Chapter 90
§ 96.03 VIOLATION.
   It shall be an unlawful public nuisance for the owner, occupant or person
having control or management of any land within city limits to permit a health
hazard or source of filth to develop thereon or the accumulation of litter or
solid waste, abandoned, junked, wrecked or inoperative vehicles or parts,
machinery or appliances and/or the excessive growth of weeds or grass or to
allow any other condition to remain as named in §
96.01 of this code, which the Code Enforcement Officer and/or the Code
Enforcement Board shall rule a hazard to public health, safety and/or morals
and/or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of city.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 96.04 HARMONIZING.
   This chapter shall be read to harmonize with §
150.01 of this code, which adopts the 2006 International Property Maintenance
Code. Any violation of §
150.01 of this code shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. This chapter
shall control in any conflict between this chapter and §
150.01 of this code.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 96.05 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Code Official/Officer shall enforce all provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue or cause to be issued all
necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code, and as
required by state statutes.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to enter the structure or
premises at reasonable times to inspect. Prior to entering into a space not
otherwise opened to the general public, the Code Enforcement Officer shall make
a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge and
control of the structure or premises, present proper identification and request
entry.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the power to enforce this code
and issue notices and/or rulings to that effect.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 96.06 NOTICE.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall send or cause to be sent notice to
the owner or owners of any premises found to be in violation of this chapter,
informing him, her or them of the nature of the violation, steps necessary to
abate the nuisance, the time period to do so, his, her or their right to appeal
the determination of the Code Enforcement Officer/Board within 30 days to the
county’s district court, as provided in KRS 82.715, and the penalties for
violation.
   (B)   Notice shall be served upon persons by hand delivery or by certified
mail, and if the whereabouts of the person is unknown and cannot be
ascertained, to exercise reasonable diligence, the city shall make an affidavit
to that effect. Serving of notice may be made by publication in the newspaper
of general circulation for two consecutive days, and a copy of the notice shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the notice.
   (C)   If the person so served does no abate the nuisance within the
specified time, the city may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account
of the expense of the abatement, and the expense shall be charged to and paid
by the owner or occupant.
   (D)   Charges for nuisance abatement shall be a lien upon the premises, as
provided in KRS 82.700 through 82.725. Whenever a bill for charges remains
unpaid for 60 days after it has been rendered, the City Clerk/Treasurer may
file with the County Clerk a statement of lien claims. This statement shall
contain a legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred,
the date the nuisance was abated, and a notice that the city claims a lien for
this amount. Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address is known. However, failure to record the lien
claim or to mail the notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice,
shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for charges.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-2011) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined no less
than $10 and not more than $100 for each offense. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   If no action is taken by the owner to abate the nuisance within 30
days of notice, the city shall continue to impose the fine set, and shall also
take reasonable steps to abate the nuisance at owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 97: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
97.01   National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
97.02   Lincoln Trail Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
Cross-reference:
   Police Department, see §§
35.025 through
35.027
   Volunteer Fire Department, see §§
35.040 through
35.042
§ 97.01 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   (A)   All emergency response agencies shall adopt and utilize the National
Incident Management System (NIMS) for all incident management and by all
incident response personnel in the city.
   (B)   The National Incident Management System is hereby adopted by reference
to ensure the NIMS is fully incorporated into all emergency response plans,
procedures and policies and to ensure that all personnel are appropriately
trained in the NIMS.
   (C)   Training of all emergency responders shall be done in coordination
with the NIMS Compliance Officer, as designated for the commonwealth.
(Res. passed 8-8-2005)
§ 97.02 LINCOLN TRAIL REGIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The city recognizes the threat that natural hazards pose to people and
property within the city.
   (B)   The city has prepared a multi-hazard and flood mitigation plan, hereby
known as the Lincoln Trail Regional Hazard Mitigation and Flood Mitigation Plan
in accordance with the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000.
   (C)   The Lincoln Trail Regional Hazard Mitigation and Flood Mitigation Plan
identifies mitigation goals and actions to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property in the city from the impacts of future hazards and
disasters.
   (D)   Participation in the planning process by the city demonstrates its
commitment to the Hazard and Flood Mitigation Plan and updating data, goals and
actions in the 2015 Lincoln Trail Regional Hazard and Flood Mitigation Plan
Update.
   (E)   The local governing body will participate in planning for the 2015
Lincoln Trail Regional Hazard Mitigation and Flood Mitigation Plan Update.
(Res. 2015-01, passed 2-9-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
      
111.   PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   DETECTIVE AGENCIES
      
115.   TATTOO PARLORS
      
116.   FLEA MARKETS AND YARD SALES
      
117.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
118.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES
      
119.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
Section
   
110.01   Levy and imposition of license fee
   
110.02   Income within and without the city
   
110.03   Temporary business permit
   
110.04   Compliance; payment of fee
   
110.05   Duties of Director of Finance
   
110.06   Persons required to file a return and pay a fee; moneys not subject to
fee
   
110.07   Board of Control
   
110.08   Late filing penalty
   
110.09   Confidentiality of information
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LEVY AND IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed an annual license fee upon all
persons in any manner, in or from the city, for the privilege of engaging in
the occupation, trade, profession or other activity, whether in person, by
mail, telephonic or electronic communication.
   (B)   The license fee shall be measured and equal to 1% of the gross
salaries, wages, commissions and/or other compensation earned by individuals
for the time period of all work that was done or services performed or rendered
in or for the city.
   (C)   The maximum fee levied will be $500 per person.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 2012-07A, passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 INCOME WITHIN AND WITHOUT THE CITY.
   Where income or profits are earned both within or without the city, the
license fee shall be measured as a result of the income or profits done or
performed in the city but not less than at least 30% of gross salaries or net
income is subject to the license fee, should it appear the work or activity is
based in the city but conducted outside the city, such as without limitation,
sales of goods and incidental services at craft, antique, flea or trade
markets.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.03 TEMPORARY BUSINESS PERMIT.
   A temporary business permit may be issued for the fee of $10 good for the
one to three continuous days use, to cover festivals or temporary vendors and
where there is a sponsoring agency, the organization shall be responsible for
each vendor’s separate $10 fee.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 COMPLIANCE; PAYMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   The fee shall be due and payable quarterly based upon the annual gross
income reportable for federal income tax purposes and net income from tie
operation of a business or enterprise of activity similarly after deduction of
all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct thereof. The dates when report
and remittance shall be due the city shall be thus: April 15, July 15, October
15 and January 31 each year. The report of April 15 of each year shall include
a true and complete copy of the business schedule C and/or corporate return
and/or K-1, 1099 and/or W-2s.
   (B)   The fee shall be on forms provided by the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer with the duty that each employee, person, trade, occupation,
profession, business or activity shall obtain and use the form for the report.
The concluding fourth quarter report of each year shall contain a comprehensive
statement or copy of the entire annual income which would coincide with the
income reported for federal income tax purposes, as an easy reference for
compliance.
   (C)   Where the entire earnings for the year are paid by one and the same
employer and the license fee has in each instance been withheld or deducted by
the employer from the gross amount of compensation to the employee without
adjustment for expenses, it shall not be necessary for the employee to file a
return unless required or requested to do so by the Director of Finance.
   (D)   If a licensee shall terminate his or her business or employment for
which the licence fee has not been withheld or paid, the proper return shall be
filed and the fee paid within 135 days after the termination of the business or
employment.
   (E)   It is the duty of each employer, who employs one or more persons, to
deduct monthly or more often as the employee may be paid, the license fee due
by the employer to the employee. The mere fact such fee is not deducted and/or
remitted by employer does not relieve the employee of responsibility for
compliance. A nonresident employer is similarly obligated to comply.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
   (A)   The Director of Finance (the City Clerk/Treasurer) is to deposit and
confidentially record and maintain records of compliance and date of receipt.
No disclosure of amounts or fees paid by individual, general trade or other
category shall be revealed except necessarily for enforcement and compliance.
   (B)   The Director of Finance is to keep an accurate record showing amount
and date of receipt. The Director shall have the duty to make inquiry and
request from any licensee and/or his or her accountant’s compliance and/or
certifying documentation of accuracy, and the licensee shall file the auditing
materials and compliance within 30 days from the request.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
§ 110.06 PERSONS REQUIRED TO FILE A RETURN AND PAY A FEE; MONEYS NOT SUBJECT TO
FEE.
   (A)   The “licensee” is any person required to file a return or to pay a
license fee under this chapter.
   (B)   The following money receipts are not deemed salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensations earned for work done or services and not
profits within the meaning of this chapter:
      (1)   Old age or retirement payments;
      (2)   Disability, sickness, accident benefit, unemployment;
      (3)   Death benefits;
      (4)   Workers’ compensation;
      (5)   Railroad or bus line transportation employees stopping or passing
through;
      (6)   Motor freight or similar delivery service personnel from outside
the city; and
      (7)   Domestic help or yard tender to a private house if employee is not
otherwise a business.
   (C)   Independent contractors, paid professional musicians and entertainers
are intended as employees obligated under this chapter whether based upon
prime, general or subcontract, rent, royalty commission or otherwise, including
real estate sales and auctioneers.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.07 BOARD OF CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby established a Board of Control consisting of
five members, to be appointed by the City Council.
      (2)   At least two members of the Board of Control shall be employees,
and at least two members shall be employers as defined by the section.
      (3)   The members shall be appointed for two-year terms by the City
Council and it shall be their duty to supervise the Director of Finance in the
performance of his or her duties. They shall review his or her decisions and
make recommendations to him or her from time to time. Any member of the Board
of Control shall not have access to any of the confidential records or books of
the city or the taxpayer, licensee or person subject to the provisions of this
chapter unless the confidentiality is waived in writing by the licensee,
taxpayer or person subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any licensee, taxpayer or other person subject to the tax imposed by
this chapter may appeal any decisions made by the Director of Finance to the
Board of Control and its decision shall be binding. Any appeal of a decision of
the Director of Finance to the Board of Control shall be in writing directed to
the Chairperson of the Board of Control within 30 days after notice of the
decision of the Director of Finance. Any aggrieved taxpayer, licensee or person
subject to the provisions of this chapter may appeal any decision of the Board
of Control to the circuit court in this county within 30 days after
notification of the decision of the Board of Control.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 LATE FILING PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with payment or audit and subsequent payment request shall
be unlawful. A minimum penalty for late filing of 10% of the fee due shall be
imposed plus interest of 12% per annum on the unpaid tax plus all costs for
accountants, legal representation and incidental costs by the city to achieve
compliance until paid.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   Any information gained by the Director of Finance or any other city
official, agent or employee of the city as a result of returns, investigation
or verification shall be confidential except in accordance with proper judicial
order and any agent or employee of the city shall upon violation be subject to
the penalty provisions of §
110.99 and shall be dismissed from employment by the city upon conviction. Each
breach of confidence constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flea markets and yard sales, see
Chapter 116
   Occupational license fees, see
Chapter 110
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, making sales or making deliveries;
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city; or
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an “itinerant merchant.”
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a “peddler.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who offers services, products, goods or other
materials, whether at retail, wholesale or otherwise where the legal entity
offering to sell or provide a service does not by affirmative action indicate
an intent to remain in business on a continuous basis for at least one year
within the city limits. If the applicant does not have a permanent facility
from which to operate the business for which he or she makes application for
license, then and in that event, there shall be a presumption that the
applicant is a TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is a transient merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in the activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
   (E)   A transient merchant shall pay a fee for the privilege of doing
business in this city of $1 per day.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
City Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06 of this code.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 of this code shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05 of this code.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to a transient merchant under this chapter shall be
posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more than
one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“licensed peddler” or “licensed solicitor,” the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License fee; bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property,
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price, makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE FEE; BOND.
   (A)   There shall be an annual license fee of $150 for a pawnbroker’s
license, which license fee shall be due and payable on January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the
business of a pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good
and sufficient surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of
$1,000. This bond shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the
provisions of this chapter and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not
inconsistent with this chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles effected or made by him or her.
      (2)   The register shall show the dates of all loans or purchases and the
names of all persons who have left any property on deposit as collateral
security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite the names and dates shall be
written in plain hand a full description of all property purchased or received
on deposit as collateral security, the time when the loan falls due, the amount
of purchase money, the amount loaned and the interest charged. The register
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any police officer of the city
when in the discharge of his or her official duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   If so required by KRS 226.070(1), every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00
a.m. each day, furnish to the Chief of Police a true and correct written report
of all goods received by him or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24
hours preceding each report. The report shall describe the goods as accurately
as practicable. The Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) of this code to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not
make any charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 90
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01 of this code, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property,
charge, contract for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month
on the unpaid principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for and
receive a reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifths of the value of the loan per
month, for investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing
the loan, making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by
§
112.03 of this code and for other expenses, losses and incidental costs
associated with servicing the loans. Further, this fee, when made and
collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any purpose of law.
   (B)   No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or contract
for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §§
112.02,
112.03(A) or
112.04 through
112.07 of this code shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) of this code shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
Coin-Operated Amusement Machines
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License fee
   
113.03   Penalty and interest
Pool Halls
   
113.15   License required; issuance and fee
   
113.16   Windows and doors to be unobstructed
   
113.17   Minors
   
113.18   Operating hours
   
113.19   Sales of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
113.20   License revocation for violation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment activities, see
Chapter 118
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Any lawful coin- or token-operated machine
or device which contains no element of chance and which as a result of
depositing a coin, token or other object automatically by or through some
mechanical operation affords music or amusement of some character with or
without vending any merchandise, but in addition to any merchandise. The COIN-
OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINE shall not include any bona fide merchandise vending
machine in which there is incorporated no amusement features.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)
§ 113.02 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 137.410, there is hereby established a license fee of
$10 per annum upon each coin-operated amusement machine and also any
electrically operated machine operated as a game or for pleasure and
entertainment by the general public.
   (B)   The aforesaid fee of $10 shall be due and payable on July 1 annually
and shall be paid to the city in cash. The city shall issue a receipt for same
indicating the amount paid and the year for which the license is granted.
(Prior Code, § 113.02)
§ 113.03 PENALTY AND INTEREST.
   Any person who shall fail to pay the license tax required by this subchapter
within 30 days from the date the tax becomes due shall be assessed a penalty of
10% of the tax and 12% per annum interest, which penalty and interest, together
with the regular tax shall be paid before the license is issued. In addition,
any person who shall violate any provisions of this section shall be fined as
set out in §
113.99 of this code. Each day that a coin-operated machine is operated without
the license required herein shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) Penalty, see §
113.99
POOL HALLS
§ 113.15 LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE AND FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to open,
operate, conduct or maintain any public pool room or billiard hall without
first obtaining the license herein required. Any person, firm or corporation
desiring to open, operate, conduct or maintain a public pool room or billiard
hall in the city shall apply to the City Clerk/Treasurer for a license, and the
application shall be accompanied by at least three references as to the
applicant’s good moral character.
   (B)   (1)   The fee for the license shall be as follows:
         (a)   For the first pool or billiard table, per year $15; and
         (b)   For the second and each additional pool or billiard table, per
year $10.
      (2)   The license shall be issued for one year from January 1 of each
year, and no license shall be issued for a period less than one year. No
refunds or reimbursements shall be made on the licenses, and no license
required by the provisions of this subchapter shall be transferable.
   (C)   Before the license shall be issued, the applicant shall agree, in
writing, to comply with all the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.15) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 WINDOWS AND DOORS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   The windows and doors of the pool room or billiard hall licensed shall be
kept free from all blinds, screens, paint or other obstructions and the windows
or doors shall be so constructed and kept that full and complete view of the
room or hall may be had from the street.
(Prior Code, § 113.16) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or person having control of any
pool room or billiard hall, or of a billiard or pool table in any public place,
to suffer or permit a minor under the age of 21 years, without the written
permission of the parent or guardian of the minor, or other person having the
care, custody or control of the minor to play any game on a pool or billiard
table, or to suffer or permit a minor under the age of 21 years to be in or
remain in any pool room, billiard hall or public place.
(Prior Code, § 113.17) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 OPERATING HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pool room or billiard hall, or place of public
resort containing a pool or billiard table or tables to remain open later than
12:00 midnight.
(Prior Code, § 113.18) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   The sale of liquor or beer on the same premises which contain a pool room or
billiard hall, when the sale of liquor and the operation of a billiard hall or
pool room are conducted jointly, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 113.19) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.20 LICENSE REVOCATION FOR VIOLATION.
   Any violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be cause for
revocation of the license, in addition to the penalty provided in §
113.99.
(Prior Code, § 113.20)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 113.99)
CHAPTER 114: DETECTIVE AGENCIES
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Permit, bond and liability insurance required
   
114.03   Proof of good character
   
114.04   Information to be provided to Chief of Police
   
114.05   Revocation of permit
   
114.06   Occupational license required
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DETECTIVE AGENCY or SECURITY AGENCY. A firm or corporation or an individual
holding itself, himself or herself out to the public as doing private detective
or security work.
(Prior Code, § 114.01)
§ 114.02 PERMIT, BOND AND LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall carry on the business of doing private detective or
security work in the city without having first secured a permit from the City
Clerk/Treasurer, upon approval of the permit application by City Council, and
executing the bond provided for herein.
   (B)   Before the permit provided for herein is issued to any person, a bond
with surety to be approved by the City Council shall be executed in the sum of
$5,000 payable to the city for the use and benefit of any person who shall be
injured or damaged by an illegal act of the detective or security agency, or by
its owners, operators, employees or agents in carrying on the business.
   (C)   When a permit is issued to a detective or security agency, and proper
bond has been executed, employees of the agency shall not be required to secure
a permit or execute bond.
   (D)   Personal liability insurance shall also be carried by the agency in
the amount of $10,000 per person, $300,000 per incident and $10,000 property
damage. The insurance shall also include all agents and employees of the
agency. Proof of insurance must be submitted to and approved by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 PROOF OF GOOD CHARACTER.
   Before a permit shall be approved by City Council and issued by the Clerk/
Treasurer, the applicant shall furnish the city with satisfactory proof that
the person applying for the permit or the chief officers or members of a firm,
if the business is to be conducted by a corporation or by partnership, are
persons of sobriety and integrity and have been orderly and law-abiding
citizens and have never been convicted of a felony or engaged in any unlawful
calling.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED TO CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All agencies or their agents or employees shall inform the Chief of Police
of the exact location of all security jobs and the dates and times that the
agents will be at or on the property in advance. This requirement is for the
safety of both the public, agency employees and police officials. Failure to so
inform may result in suspension or revocation of the agency’s permit to operate
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Permits provided for herein may be revoked at any time by the City
Council, if any person shall be injured or damaged on account of any illegal
act of the detective or security agency or its owners, agents or employees, or
any other acts which constitute the conduct as will be detrimental to the
community and citizens and for other just causes.
   (B)   A permit shall not be revoked until written charges have been made or
preferred against the holder thereof or until the charges have been examined,
heard and investigated by the City Council after reasonable notice. After the
City Council has received notice of any charges being placed against a
detective or security agency, the City Council shall notify the agency or
owners within ten days from receipt of complaint.
   (C)   The owner or agency shall have 14 days from the receipt of the notice
of the complaint to answer the complaint in writing, or to ask that a hearing
be set to determine the validity of the charges. The date of the hearing shall
not be less than 14 days nor more than 30 days from the date that the request
for hearing is received or from the date that the time period for the request
for hearing is received or from the date that the time period for the request
for hearing or answer would have expired.
(Prior Code, § 114.05)
§ 114.06 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Nothing herein shall relieve any detective agency or security agency or
private security person from paying to the city the occupational license tax
provided for in
Chapter 110 of this code for the carrying on of the business.
(Prior Code, § 114.06)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $500 for each offense. Each day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 114.99)
CHAPTER 115: TATTOO PARLORS
Section
   
115.01   License required; fee
   
115.02   Operating hours
   
115.03   Regulations concerning minors
   
115.04   Obscene drawings
   
115.05   Loitering prohibited
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Every owner or operator of a tattoo parlor desiring to establish and
locate a tattoo parlor in the city shall apply to the City Clerk/Treasurer for
a license therefor.
   (B)   The fee for the license shall be the sum of $5,000, payable and
renewable annually each calendar year, or fraction thereof, on January 1.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 OPERATING HOURS.
   Tattoo parlors shall be open for business only between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 REGULATIONS CONCERNING MINORS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be tattooed on any part of
his or her body unless the minor obtains and presents to the owner or operator
of the tattoo parlor an authorization therefor duly signed by his or her
parents, statutory guardian or legal custodian and notarized.
   (B)   The authorizations shall be kept on permanent file by the owner or
operator of the parlor and shall be of public record.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 OBSCENE DRAWINGS.
   No owner or operator of a tattoo parlor or any employee thereof, shall
design and draw on any person, any nude or seminude portion of the human body,
nor any obscene or lewd words or phrases.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   No owner, operator or employee of a tattoo parlor shall suffer or permit
persons to congregate or loiter in or around his or her premises during or
after business hours.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   In the event any owner, operator or employee of a tattoo parlor located in
the city violates any of the provisions of this chapter, the owner, operator or
employee shall be prosecuted and, if found guilty, shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned for not less than ten days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 115.99)
CHAPTER 116: FLEA MARKETS AND YARD SALES
Section
Flea Markets
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required; fee
   
116.03   Application for license
   
116.04   Duration of and display of license
Yard Sales
   
116.15   Definitions
   
116.16   Yard sale permit required; exceptions
   
116.17   Limitation on permits; display required
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Occupational license fee, see
Chapter 110
   Pawnbrokers, see
Chapter 112
   Peddlers, transient merchants and solicitors, see
Chapter 111
FLEA MARKETS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLEA MARKET. Sale or sales of personal property conducted on real property
leased daily or weekly by the seller and not a permanent, fixed location for
the conduct of the sales.
   PERSON. Individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations and corporations.
(Prior Code, § 116.01)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   Each person who sells personal property by means of a flea market in the
city shall purchase a license from the City Clerk/Treasurer and pay a business
privilege license fee of $50 annually.
(Prior Code, § 116.02) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Each person subject to this subchapter shall present to the City Clerk/
Treasurer an application showing the applicant’s name, business address,
business telephone number, residential address, residential telephone number
and, if a nonresident of the county, a statement setting forth any previous
unpardoned felony convictions. Forms for applications shall be provided by the
City Clerk/Treasurer and paid for out of the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 116.03)
§ 116.04 DURATION OF AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued hereunder shall be valid for one year and shall be
issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The license shall be prominently displayed
by the holder of the premises where the sale is conducted, and shall show the
name of the holder and the expiration date.
(Prior Code, § 116.04) Penalty, see §
116.99
YARD SALES
§ 116.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOODS. Any goods, warehouse merchandise or other property capable of being
the object of the sale regulated hereunder.
   PERSON. Individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations and corporations.
   YARD SALES. All sales entitled, “garage sale,” “lawn sale,” “attic sale,”
“rummage sale,” or “yard sale,” or any similar casual sale of tangible personal
property which is advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or can
be made aware of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 116.15)
§ 116.16 YARD SALE PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a yard sale within the
city without first filing with the City Clerk/Treasurer the information herein
specified and obtaining from the City Clerk/Treasurer a permit to do so, to be
known as a “yard sale permit.” The permit shall be issued without charge.
   (B)   The information to be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer pursuant to
this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   The name of the person, firm, group, corporation, association or
organization conducting the sale;
      (2)   The name of the owner of the property on which the sale is to be
conducted, and the consent of the owner if the applicant is other than the
owner;
      (3)   The location at which the sale is to be conducted;
      (4)   The number of days of the sale;
      (5)   The date and nature of any past sale; and
      (6)   The relationship or connection the applicant may have had with any
other person, firm, group, corporation, association or organization conducting
the previous sale and the date or dates of the sale.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect the
following persons or sales:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials; and
      (3)   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically named or described in the
advertisement and which separate items do not exceed five in number.
(Prior Code, § 116.16) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.17 LIMITATION ON PERMITS; DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A yard sale permit shall be issued to any one person only two times
within a 12-month period and no permit shall be issued for more than three
consecutive calendar days.
   (B)   Each permit issued under this subchapter must be prominently displayed
on the premises upon which the yard sale is conducted through the entire period
of the permit sale.
(Prior Code, § 116.17) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating or failing to comply with
any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more
than $500 for each offense. Each and every day that the violation or
noncompliance continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 116.99)
CHAPTER 117: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
117.01   Imposition of license fee
   
117.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
117.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
117.04   Due date; interest
   
117.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 117.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Prior Code, § 117.01)
§ 117.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 7% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of the policies.
(KRS 91A.080(2)) (Prior Code, § 117.02)
§ 117.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy, which is not a life insurance policy, shall be 12% of the
premium actually collected within each calendar quarter, by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which the company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or the
death of their employees, caused thereby, under the provisions of Workers’
Compensation Act, and shall not include premiums received on policies of group,
family nor individual health insurance, insurance against flood damage issued
under the federal flood insurance program, nor insurance fees paid by
municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 117.03) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 117.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(KRS 91A.080(8), (9)) (Prior Code, § 117.04)
§ 117.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils; or
   (E)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8)) (Prior Code, § 117.05)
CHAPTER 118: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Restrictions, requirements and conditions
   
118.03   Licensing
   
118.04   Administration, suspension, revocation
   
118.05   Effect and limitation
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. An establishment having as one of its principal uses
one or more of the following: Customer-operated motion picture devices; peep
shows; viewing areas; or similar devices either coin, token or slug operated,
or which, in consideration of an entrance fee, display material distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on depictions of sexual activities, as defined
in this section, or which offer male or female persons who expose to view of
the customer the bare female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola, human genitals, pubic region or buttocks, even if partially or
completely covered by translucent material or human or simulated male genitals
in a discernible turgid state even if completely or opaquely covered.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. An establishment having as one of its principal uses the
sale, rent or display of pictures, books, periodicals, magazines, appliances
and similar material which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis
on depiction of sexual activities as hereinafter defined or an establishment
with a substantial segment or section devoted to the sale, rental or display of
the material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT PROVIDER. A commercial establishment, such as a hotel or
motel, which in addition to providing as the major part of its business
services unrelated to depiction of sexual activities as herein defined, makes
entertainment, either live or on film or video tape, available to its
customers, which entertainment has as a dominant theme or is characterized or
distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
sexual activities, if the establishment advertises the availability of the
adult entertainment at its establishment. The advertisement of the materials
shall not include the posting of a card or handbill on or near a television set
in a hotel or motel room advising room guests that the adult movies are
available upon request of the guest, or advertising informing the public of the
availability of commercial cable channels.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment having or advertising as
having as one of its principal uses the presentation of motion pictures, slide
projections and other similar material having as a dominant theme or
characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to sexual activities, as defined in this section, for observation
by persons therein.
   ADULT STAGE SHOW THEATER. An establishment having as one of its principal
uses the presentation of live performances of humans or animals having as a
dominant theme or characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to sexual activities, as defined in this
section, for observation by persons therein.
   CABARET. An establishment which features, as a principal use of its
business, entertainers, waiters, bartenders, male or female impersonators or
persons, either male or female, who expose to public view of the patrons of the
establishment at any time the bare female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola, human genitals, pubic region or buttocks, even if
partially or completely covered by translucent material, or human or simulated
male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely and opaquely
covered.
   COMMERCIAL SEXUAL ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any commercial establishment not
otherwise described in this section which makes available material, services or
entertainment appealing to adult sexual interests, including but not limited to
a bath house, swingers club or similar establishment if the establishment or
its entertainment, services or goods are advertised by or on behalf of the
establishment in a manner patently designed to appeal to the adult sexual
interests.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person hired by or suffered or permitted to work in an
establishment engaging in adult entertainment activities whether that person
receives remuneration or compensation directly from the operator or owner of
the establishment, from patrons of the establishment or from any other source,
whether by contract of employment or otherwise.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A business entity or endeavor, fixed, mobile or traveling,
including its owners, operators, directors, shareholders, partners, employees
and possessions.
   LICENSEE. A person who is the holder of a valid license under this chapter,
also including an agent, servant or employee of or other person acting on
behalf of a LICENSEE whenever a LICENSEE is prohibited from doing a certain act
under this chapter.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity who
establishes or maintains a business as its owner or manager and shall also mean
LICENSEE as defined in this section.
   OWNER. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity who has
legal title to real estate, with or without accompanying actual possession
thereof, or has all or part of the beneficial ownership of any real estate and
a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgagee in
possession.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity.
   PRINCIPAL USE. A substantial or significant use. Evidence that an
establishment maintains more than 10% of its stock in trade in material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis in sexual activities; or that it
devotes more than 15% of its floor space which is open to either the public
generally or to members of the public other than minors or more than a total of
160 square feet to the display of material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on sexual activities; or that it provides entertainment, either live
or on film or video tape, and that said entertainment more than 10% of the time
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on sexual activities; or that
it advertises in a manner visible from the outside of the business premises the
availability of material or entertainment distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on sexual activities shall establish that the establishment is
engaging in an adult entertainment activity as a PRINCIPAL USE.
   SELF-DESIGNATED ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any establishment which
designates all or a portion of its premises as for adults only, or has a policy
of excluding minors from its premises or from a portion of its premises and
which makes available services, entertainment or goods at the premises or at
the portion of the premises designated for adults only which are characterized
or distinguished by depictions of sexual activities as defined in this section.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Depiction of human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy or arousal
bestiality necrophilia, sadomasochistic abuse, fellatio or cunnilingus; or
      (3)   Holding or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than complete and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if opaquely
covered.
(Prior Code, § 118.01)
§ 118.02 RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   An establishment engaging in an adult entertainment activity, except
as otherwise provided by laws which may be more restrictive, may not have more
than one outside flush to the wall, facia style sign, not to exceed in size ten
feet in length (horizontal to the ground) and three feet in width (vertical to
the ground) with no flashing lights and with no lettering, wording or pictorial
or representational matter which is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depictions of sexual activities, as defined in §
118.01 of this code.
   (B)   An establishment engaging in an adult entertainment may not display
its stock in trade or matter depicting, describing or relating to sexual
activities in such manner as to be subject to public view from outside the
establishment, including but not limited to view from public sidewalks,
streets, arcades, hallways or passways.
   (C)   (1)   An operator of an establishment engaging in an adult
entertainment activity or his or her employee shall not permit a person under
18 years of age to be employed by or to enter his or her establishment,
provided, however, that a licensed adult entertainment establishment which
devotes only a portion of its business premises to adult entertainment or
material may permit the public generally including minors, to enter the
portions of the premises within which no adult entertainment or material is
visible or on display.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not be construed to be an exemption from or
in conflict with any requirement found in any statute, ordinance, regulation or
other provision of law applicable to a licensee or potential licensee hereunder
which is more stringent in terms of an age requirement for employees.
   (D)   An operator engaging in an adult entertainment activity shall, at all
times, cause the entrance of his or her establishment to be so attended as to
ensure compliance with the requirements contained in division (C) above.
   (E)   (1)   The public entrance to an adult entertainment establishment
shall not be located nearer than 500 feet from any residential zone, single- or
multi-family dwelling, school, church or park.
      (2)   The distance shall be measured along a straight line from the
nearest property line of the real estate on which that building or park area is
located to the entrance to the establishment engaging in an adult entertainment
activity.
   (F)   An establishment engaged in adult entertainment shall be closed from
1:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday and all day on Sunday.
   (G)   (1)   The public entrance to an adult entertainment establishment
shall not be located nearer than 500 feet from the public entrance of another
adult entertainment activity establishment.
      (2)   The distance shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest
entrance to a building containing an existing adult entertainment establishment
to the entrance or proposed entrance to the building containing the proposed
new adult entertainment establishment.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 LICENSING.
   (A)   The owner or operator of an establishment intending to engage, or
engaging, under a previously issued license, in an adult entertainment activity
shall make application for a license with the City Clerk/Treasurer in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing, under oath and shall be in the
form prescribed by the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall contain the following
information together with further information as the City Clerk/Treasurer may
require:
      (1)   The name and location of the establishment and the name and
business address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name, address, date of birth, Social Security number and
photograph of a natural person with an ownership interest in the licensee, the
natural person to be determined as follows:
         (a)   If the licensee is one or more natural persons, then all natural
persons shall comply, or any one natural person may comply for the licensee
upon certification that he or she owns a greater share of the licensee than any
other person;
         (b)   If the licensee is a partnership, then the natural person
designated as the managing general partner in the partnership agreement, a copy
of which is to be attached to the license application, shall comply, but if the
partnership agreement designates no natural person as a managing general
person, then the natural person who by virtue of his or her interest or holding
in the partnerships or corporations which have formed the partnership owns a
greater share of the licensee than any other single natural person shall
comply; and
         (c)   If the licensee is a corporation, the natural person, if any,
who owns a greater number of shares than any other person shall comply, but if
the person owning the greatest number of shares is not a natural person, then
the natural person who by virtue of his or her interests or holdings in one or
more partnerships or other corporations which own shares in the licensee, owns
a greater portion of the shares in the licensee than any other individual
natural person shall comply.
      (3)   The name and address of all directors and officers of any licensee
or applicant which is a corporation, and the name and address of the licensee’s
designated agent for service of process;
      (4)   In the event the applicant or licensee is not the owner of record
of the real property on which the licensed establishment is located or to be
located, the application shall include a notarized statement from the owner of
record of the real property acknowledging that an adult entertainment
establishment is to be located on the real property upon issuance of the
license. The application shall furnish the name and the address of the owner of
record of the real property and a copy of the lease or rental agreement or
memorandum thereof;
      (5)   The name, address, date of birth, Social Security number and
photograph of the individual designated by the applicant to undertake to keep
the applicant, if licensed, at all times in compliance with the restrictions,
requirements and conditions of this chapter and with the rules and regulations
promulgated by the City Clerk/Treasurer as stated herein below together with
the sworn affidavit of that individual stating that he or she has received a
copy of this chapter, that he or she understands the conditions of this chapter
and that he or she willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant to comply
therewith;
      (6)   The name, address, date of birth, Social Security number and
photograph of the individual designated by the applicant or licensee to be
responsible for keeping the information required hereunder current at all times
together with a sworn affidavit of that individual stating that he or she has
received a copy of this chapter, that he or she understands the requirements
hereto pertaining to disclosure of information and that he or she willfully
undertakes on behalf of the applicant to comply therewith;
      (7)   The name and addresses of any rental agent of the property on which
the establishment is located;
      (8)   The nature of the activity or activities to be engaged in at the
location;
      (9)   The name and address of any person to whom the applicant wants
mailed notice to be given in case of violation of other matters affecting the
license hereunder;
      (10)   A photograph or drawing of any signs displayed or proposed to be
displayed on the exterior of the establishment and a statement of the
dimensions of the signs;
      (11)   Proof of compliance with city occupational license fee laws;
      (12)   A certificate of occupancy where required and, in all other cases,
a letter of compliance issued by the Zoning Inspector certifying that the
business is in compliance with applicable zoning laws or has nonconforming use
rights and that the proposed use will not constitute an enlargement or
expansion of the scope of the nonconforming rights;
      (13)   A certificate from the Fire Chief or his or her designee that all
applicable fire regulations have been met;
      (14)   A statement from the Building Inspector that the premises comply
with applicable provisions of the state’s Uniform Building Code, as adopted by
the city; and
      (15)   A statement from the county’s Board of Health that the premises
are adequately ventilated and contain public restrooms, which satisfy the
requirements of 902 KAR 10:010.
   (C)   The information required shall be at all times current even after the
granting of a license by the City Clerk/Treasurer. It shall be the
responsibility of the operator or other person designated in the license
application to notify the City Clerk/Treasurer no later than the close of the
first business day of the City Clerk/Treasurer after the effective date of any
changes, alterations or modifications in any information contained in the
application including, but not limited to: Name of establishment; any change in
the corporate information required for the application; names and addresses of
the owners of the property on which the establishment is located; names and
addresses of any rental agents of the property on which the establishment is
located; name and address of designated agent for service of process, nature of
the activity or activities to be engaged in at the establishment; and the name
and address of any person the applicant wants mail notice to be given in case
of violation or other matters affecting the license.
   (D)   The City Clerk/Treasurer will cause the premises to be inspected after
the application has been received and all application requirements have been
complied with. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall then issue a license forthwith if
all restrictions, requirements, conditions and all applicable requirements of
this chapter and other applicable laws have been met. Provided, however, the
granting of a license does not certify compliance with all applicable laws nor
does it stop the city from enforcement of all applicable laws or ordinances. If
inspection reveals failure to comply with any restrictions, requirements or
conditions herein, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the applicant in
writing of that fact, stating what failures have been discovered, allowing a
reasonable time to correct the defects and informing the applicant of the
appeal procedure if the applicant does not agree with the City Clerk/
Treasurer’s decision.
   (E)   Any license granted according to this section shall at all times be
conspicuously posted and displayed in a public area so as to be open to view of
the patrons and proper public authorities.
   (F)   Application for or granting of a license according to this section is
deemed to permit periodic inspections of the public areas of any establishment
requiring a license under this chapter for the purpose of verifying compliance
with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (G)   No operator shall maintain, operate or conduct an establishment
engaging in adult entertainment activities defined under this chapter unless
the person has made an application for a license, and thereafter no operator
shall own, operate or be employed at an establishment engaging in adult
entertainment activities which has sought and been denied a license according
to this section.
   (H)   No person shall operate, own or be employed at an unlicensed adult
entertainment activity defined under this chapter.
   (I)   No person shall permit himself or herself to be an operator or an
employee at an adult entertainment activity which has not been validly licensed
according to this section.
   (J)   No owner shall permit adult entertainment activities to be conducted
on his or her property unless and until he or she is properly licensed
according to this section.
(Prior Code, § 118.03) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 ADMINISTRATION, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer may refuse to renew any establishment license or
may suspend any license granted under this chapter if the City Clerk/Treasurer
finds on the basis of substantial evidence presented at a hearing that a
licensee, applicant, owner or operator:
   (A)   Has failed to comply with the restrictions, requirements and
conditions of this chapter or with the material regulations as may be enacted
by the City Clerk/Treasurer pursuant to this section;
   (B)   Has knowingly provided false information to gain or to maintain a
license, or has willfully failed to keep the information required current; or
   (C)   Has engaged in a consistent pattern of conduct which has resulted in
the licensed premises being used for or the site of illegal activities, whether
under this chapter, state or federal law or by the licensee or its agents,
employees or patrons.
(Prior Code, § 118.04)
§ 118.05 EFFECT AND LIMITATION.
   It is not the purpose of this chapter to establish community standards on
obscenity nor to permit persons to engage in any activity which is in violation
of law, including but not limited to state laws pertaining to the advertising,
promotion, distribution or sale of obscene matter or matters portraying a
sexual performance by a minor, state laws pertaining to the use of a minor in a
sexual performance or promotion of a sexual performance by a minor or the use
of a minor to distribute material portraying sexual performance by a minor.
(Prior Code, § 118.05) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be deemed a violation, misdemeanor and upon
conviction the violator shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $250
plus court costs. Any person violating this chapter may also be found guilty of
a civil offense. The civil fine shall be not less than $20 nor more than $250.
The civil fine shall be paid directly to the city. If the fine is not paid
within 30 days from the date of notification, then the city may recover the
fine in a civil action in a court of proper jurisdiction. The city may also
obtain injunctions or abatement orders to ensure compliance with this chapter
or pursue administrative remedies when appropriate, including injunctions and
abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 118.99)
CHAPTER 119: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
By the Drink
   
119.01   Purpose
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Incorporation of state law
   
119.04   Scope
   
119.05   Food service requirement
   
119.06   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
119.07   Mandatory responsible beverage training
   
119.08   License required
   
119.09   License application
   
119.10   Periodic information to be provided by licensee
   
119.11   License renewal
   
119.12   Regulatory license fee imposed
   
119.13   Additional restrictions on sale by licensee
   
119.14   Cause for refusal to issue or renew license and for suspension and
revocation of license
   
119.15   Revocation or suspension of license
   
119.16   Appeal
   
119.17   Transfer or assignment of license
Alcoholic Beverage Control
   
119.30   General provisions
   
119.31   License requirements
   
119.32   Alcoholic Beverage Administrator
   
119.33   Application and maintenance of license
   
119.34   Hours for sale
   
119.35   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
119.36   Minors
   
119.37   Consumption on premises prohibited
   
119.38   Enforcement
   
119.39   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
119.40   Signs and advertising
   
119.41   Sidewalk café permit
   
119.42   Implementation of ordinance provisions
 
   
119.99   Penalty
BY THE DRINK
§ 119.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote economic development and
tourism within the city by making provision for the sale of alcoholic beverages
by the drink at certain restaurants and dining facilities in a mariner
consistent with the local option election heretofore conducted pursuant to KRS
Chapter 242.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the definitions contained in KRS
Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244 are hereby adopted as part of the alcoholic
beverage control law of the city and shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.03 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of the state alcoholic beverage control law contained in KRS
Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244, pertaining to licenses and regulations of the
state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Board as well as amendments and supplements
thereto, are hereby adopted as part of the alcoholic beverage control law of
the city, except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.04 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall be construed to apply to the sale of alcoholic
beverages by the drink at restaurants and dining facilities within the city
which seat a minimum of 50 persons and derive a minimum of 70% of their gross
receipts from the sale of food.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.05 FOOD SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
   All license holders under this subchapter shall be required to maintain food
service during all hours that alcohol is served.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.06 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (the “ABC Administrator”)
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority of the members
of the City Council, and may be removed by the Mayor with or without cause. No
conflict of interest shall be deemed to arise if the individual appointed as
ABC Administrator is also employed by the city in some other capacity.
   (B)   The ABC Administrator shall have the power and authority to promulgate
such regulations as may be necessary to implement this subchapter, pursuant to
KRS 241.190 and KRS 241.060.
   (C)   The functions of the ABC Administrator shall be the same with respect
to the city’s Alcoholic Beverages Licenses and Regulations as the functions of
the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Board with respect to state alcoholic
beverages licenses and regulations, as provided in KRS 241.190, except that no
amendments of proposed by the ABC Administrator shall be more stringent than
the statutes relating to alcoholic beverage control, or than the regulations of
the state ABC Board. Regulations of the ABC Administrator shall only become
effective upon the appropriate approval of such by the City Council.
   (D)   The ABC Administrator and his or her assistants and investigators
shall have the full police powers of peace officers, and their jurisdiction
shall be coextensive with the boundaries of the city. They, and any city law
enforcement officer, may inspect any premises where alcoholic or malt beverages
are sold, stored or otherwise trafficked without first obtaining a search
warrant.
   (E)   (1)   The ABC Administrator and his or her assistants and
investigators are authorized to examine and inspect, at any reasonable time,
all books and records required to be maintained by licensees under KRS 244.150.
      (2)   In addition to the reports otherwise required by this subchapter,
the licensee shall submit to the ABC Administrator a copy of all reports which
the licensee is required or elects to submit to or file with the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (F)   The ABC Administrator shall have the same powers and duties with
respect to suspension and revocation for cause of city licenses as the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board has with respect to state license under KRS
241.060, The ABC Administrator, on his or her own initiative or on the
complaint of any person, may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any
license issued under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.07 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE TRAINING.
   (A)   All licensees, employees or persons involved in the selling and
serving or alcoholic beverages shall be at least 20 years of age. They must all
participate in and complete a city-approved responsible beverage service
training program, approved by the ABC Administrator. Before approval of the
program, the ABC Administrator shall first be satisfied that the training
program is genuine and effectively trains all participants in the recognition
of false identification and age documents, as well as the human characteristics
of alcohol and/or drug intoxication.
   (B)   The city will not require enrollment in any particular classes, but
only that the training be obtained from a recognized training program meeting
the goals expressed in this subchapter.
   (C)   The training person or agency must reasonably instruct upon and
certify the participant’s competence in pertinent federal, state and local laws
related to the sale of alcohol, verification of age, forms of identification
and usual documents of false or misleading identification, the effect of
alcohol intoxication. This training must be completed within 90 days of the
date on which the person first becomes subject to the training requirement.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.08 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold in the city except as permitted
by state statutes and except by a duly authorized licensee in compliance with
the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Restaurants and dining facilities shall be eligible for the license
for which provision is made herein if they comply with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Such restaurants and dining facilities shall seat a minimum of 50
persons; and
      (2)   Restaurants and dining facilities licensed under this subchapter
shall have articulated and convincing reasons to anticipate that they will
derive a minimum of 70% of their gross receipts from the sale of food as
certified by periodic documentation as herein required.
   (C)   The city licenses shall be issued and the fees collected by the City
Clerk/Treasurer. That official shall report and pay to the Treasurer at the end
of each month such license fees as he or she has collected.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.09 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Representatives of restaurants and dining facilities seeking the
license for which provision is made herein shall submit a completed application
to the ABC Administrator. The form provided shall be the same form utilized by
the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission (ABC).
   (B)   Applicants for a license under this subchapter shall pay a license fee
of $800, unless otherwise specified by §
119.31.
   (C)   A verified statement of the applicant shall accompany the application,
containing the affirmation of the applicant that the applicant anticipates that
the gross receipts at the licensed premises through the sale of food shall be
equal to or greater than 70% of its total gross receipts.
   (D)   The applicant for a city license shall tender with its application a
consent document, which shall state: “The undersigned applicant hereby grants
its irrevocable consent to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, and
his or her duly appointed agents, to come upon and inspect and search the
licensed premises at any reasonable time.”
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.10 PERIODIC INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED BY LICENSEE.
   (A)   Every licensee under this subchapter shall keep and maintain on the
licensed premises adequate records and books of transactions of all sales in
the same manner as required by the Rules and Regulations of the state’s ABC
Board. Such books and records shall be available at all reasonable times for
inspection by the ABC Administrator and any such city employees who may assist
the ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (B)   Applicants to whom a license is issued authorizing the sale of
alcoholic beverages pursuant to this subchapter shall provide periodic
information demonstrating compliance with the continuing requirement that 70%
of the applicant’s gross income is earned from the sale of food. Such
information shall be provided on or before March 31 and on or before September
30 of each year, and shall consist of a certificate from a certified public
accountant familiar with the applicant’s pertinent business records, which
shall state: “I have conducted a limited scope audit according to accepted
accounting principles of the pertinent records of, licensee under City of West
Point Ordinance No.         and certify that the licensee earned at least 70%
of its gross receipts from the sale of food during the half year ending (March
1 or September 1).”
   (C)   The certificate shall contain a brief description of the methodology
used in the determination of the certified percentage.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.11 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   The license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic beverages until the next following June 30. The license may be
renewed annually thereafter upon a showing that the criteria therefore have
been met, the filing and approval of a renewal application and the payment of a
renewal fee.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.12 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the purpose of full reimbursement to the city of the cost of any
police, regulatory, legal or administrative expenses related to the sale of
alcoholic beverages in a manner consistent with this subchapter, a regulatory
license fee is imposed on the gross receipts from retail sales of alcoholic
beverages under each license issued pursuant to this subchapter. The amount of
this fee shall be adjusted from time to time by ordinance so that the same
shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to the city of the
police, regulatory, administrative or legal expenses herein referred to. The
regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees or
licenses permitted by law.
   (B)   Until adjusted by ordinance as hereinbefore required, the regulatory
license fee shall be 5% of all sales of alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   Payment of the regulatory license fee shall accompany tax returns
approved for use by the ABC Administrator, submitted to the City Clerk/
Treasurer by the twentieth day of each month for the preceding month’s sales.
There shall be a monthly credit of $66.66, representing the pro rata portion of
the initial license cost for which provision is made in this subchapter.
   (D)   Failure to pay the monthly remittance within ten days after the due
date shall constitute a violation of this subchapter, and in addition, shall
constitute grounds for an immediate 30 day suspension of the license for which
provision is made herein.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.13 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON SALE BY LICENSEE.
   At no time shall any alcoholic beverage be sold between the hours of 12:00
a.m. (midnight) and 6:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, not between 12:00 a.m.
(midnight) on Saturday and 6:00 a.m. on Monday.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.14 CAUSE FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW LICENSE AND FOR SUSPENSION AND
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Causes for the refusal to issue or renew a license or for the suspension or
revocation of a license shall be the same as provided for state licenses
according to KRS 243.450, 234.490 and 243.500, and in addition thereto shall
include the following:
   (A)   The failure to obtain or retain a state license;
   (B)   The failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter regarding
gross receipts from the sale of food or the provisions of this subchapter
regarding periodic certification from a certified public accountant;
   (C)   The failure to pay the regulatory license fee when due; and
   (D)   The failure to pay any fine for which provision is made herein.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.15 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the occurrence of one or more of the causes for revocation and
suspension, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator may, upon his or her
own initiative or upon complaint, give notice requiring the licensee to show
cause why a revocation or suspension should not occur and give notice of the
time and place of a hearing on possible revocation or suspension. Upon the
licensee’s failure to show cause, such a suspension or revocation may be
ordered by the ABC Administrator. The licensee shall be afforded the right to:
      (1)   Reasonable notice of the charge;
      (2)   Representation;
      (3)   Presentation of such evidence and witnesses as in its discretion
are appropriate to the issues; and
      (4)   A finding reasonably supported by the evidence.
   (B)   The ABC Administrator may designate a city employee or other person to
act as a hearing officer to conduct the hearing for which provision is
hereinbefore made. In the event of such a designation, the Hearing Officer’s
determination shall be in the form of a recommendation upon which the ABC
Administrator shall determine appropriate action.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.16 APPEAL.
   Appeals from determination of the ABC Administrator with respect to orders
of that officer, including denial of applications or orders suspending or
revoking the same, shall be addressed to the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board in a manner consistent with KRS 241.200.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 119.17 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferred or assigned,
either as to the licensee or to the location except with prior approval of the
ABC Administrator and payment of a $400 fee made payable to the city.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011)
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
§ 119.30 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “Alcoholic Beverage Control
Ordinance” of the City of West Point, Kentucky.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization under KRS Ch. 241 through
   (C)   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise,
shall have the same meaning as those set out in the alcoholic beverage control
laws (KRS Ch. 241 through 244) of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and all
amendments and supplements thereto.
   (D)   This subchapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and
traffic in both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context
permits such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the
licensee, or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any
licensed premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions,
requirements and penalties of any other ordinance of the city, or of any
statues of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS Ch. 241 through 244) and all amendments and
supplements thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this subchapter except
as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.31 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   City licenses. For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging
in the actions, business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to
traffic in alcoholic beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS
243.070, there is hereby established a corresponding city license for each of
the city licenses described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license shall
be as set out in the schedule set forth below. In the event KRS 243.070 shall
hereafter be amended to authorize additional city licenses, the city shall have
authority to issue that additional city license type and the fee for such
license shall be the maximum fee provided in KRS 243.070 as amended.
License Type Fee
License Type                                                   Fee
Authorized public consumption license, per annum               $250
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum    $1,000
Brewer's license, per annum                                    $500
Caterer's license, per annum                                   $800
Distiller's license, per annum                                 $500
Extended hours supplement license, per annum                   $2,000
Limited golf course license, per annum                         $1,200
Limited restaurant license, per annum                          $1,200
Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum                 $400
Microbrewery license, per annum                                $500
Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum      $200
Non-quota Type 3 retail drink license, per annum               $300
Non-quota Type 2 retail drink license, per annum               $1,000
Non-quota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum $200
Non-quota Type 1 retail drink license, per annum               $2,000
Qualified historic site, per annum                             $1,030
Quota retail drink license, per annum                          $1,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                        $1,000
Rectifier's license                                            $3,000
   1.   Class A per annum                                $960
   2.   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                 $300
Special temporary alcohol auction license, per event           $100
Special temporary license, per event                           $150
Wholesaler's license, per annum                                $3,000
 
   (B)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (C)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
   (D)   Authorized public consumption license - quadricycles. The holder of
this license must remain in compliance with KRS 243.089 in its entirety.
Additionally, the following requirements must be met.
      (1)   Operation may be only between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m.
      (2)   Must obtain the local license.
      (3)   Must submit routes for approval ten days prior to operation.
      (4)   Shall include all necessary and required safety equipment.
      (5)   Shall submit to inspection by the local authority.
      (6)   Shall load and unload passengers only in designated approved areas.
   (E)   Expiration of license; proration of fees. All city licenses, except
temporary licenses, shall begin on February 1 of any year and shall expire on
January 31 of the following year as set forth in KRS 243.090 and 804 KAR 4:390.
Any licenses issued after August 1 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is
based on the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period; however,
the cost of any license shall not be less than one-half the amount of the full
fee for an annual license of that type.
   (F)   Payment of license fees; delinquency. No licensee shall enter into or
begin operating any business for which a license is required by this chapter
until the license fee has been paid in full. The fee for renewal of any license
shall be paid with the renewal application. Failure to pay any license fee
within ten days after it becomes due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of
the license fee. Any licensee failing to pay the fees, including penalties,
within ten days after such fees are due may be subject to revocation of the
license and to other penalties as provided in this subchapter.
   (G)   Refund of fees.
      (1)   Should any licensee under this subchapter be prohibited from
conducting the licensed business for the full period covered by the license
because of any changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the
Commonwealth with reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside
licensee's control, then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate
part of the license fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from
carrying on said business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the city
ABC Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the
licensee or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by
licensee, or an agent or employee of the licensee.
      (2)   In the event a violation of this subchapter occurs that results in
the suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
   (H)   Regulatory license fee.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory
license fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each
licensee who has a local city license issued by the city ABC Administrator. The
city’s regulatory license fee shall be 4% of gross sales of all alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled
spirits and wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The
regulatory license fee shall be 4% on gross retail sales of package malt
beverages.
      (2)   Payment of said regulatory fee shall be remitted to the city ABC
Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk, or his or her
designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The city may use
said fees as permitted by law, including but not limited to, any cost of
additional policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale
of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any other fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit
against a regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount
equal to any license fee shall be based on paperwork required by the local and/
or state ABC Administrator, which may include but is not limited to tax returns
and financial statements. Said paperwork and payment will be due according to
the schedule set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which may be set
at, but is not limited to, time periods consisting of a monthly or quarterly
billing by the local ABC office and/or the city.
      (3)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
      (4)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by the due
date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the regulatory fee; provided,
however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
      (5)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late
payments.
   (I)   Disposition of fees and any other type of payment to the city. The
city ABC Administrator shall transmit all fees and any other types of payment
made to the city, upon collection, to the City Clerk, or his or her designee,
for deposit into the appropriate designated account.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.32 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160 and KRS 241.170, there is hereby created the
office of the City of West Point Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city appoints himself or herself, an employee of the
City of West Point to serve as the City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator,
pursuant to KRS 241.170.
   (C)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may from time to time
appoint such additional personnel, such as Alcoholic Beverage Control
investigator(s), as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of
this subchapter.
   (D)   The City ABC Administrator shall same duties and functions regarding
local license applications and renewals as the state Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control (“Department”) with respect to state licenses. The City ABC
Administrator shall have the same duties and functions regarding local license
penalization as the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (“Board”) with respect to
state license penalization.
   (E)   To prevent potential conflicts of interests, no person shall be a City
ABC Administrator, an investigator, or an employee of the city, under the
supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a
member of the Board under state law set forth in KRS 241.100.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator shall have authority delegated by the
Mayor, and as authorized under KRS Ch. 241 to 244. The City ABC Administrator,
and his or her investigators, shall have jurisdiction coextensive with the
boundaries of the city.
   (G)   The City ABC Administrator and his or her investigators shall have
available at all reasonable times for their inspection all books and records
required to be maintained by licenses under KRS 244.150 and the City ABC
Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by licensee to the
Department.
   (H)   The City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties,
shall take the oath as prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution. The ABC
Administrator and any employee delegated or assigned to the ABC Administration
may also be asked to execute a bond in such penal sum as the city deems
necessary unless said person if already covered under the city's active bonds
as required under KRS in regards to officials and employees of the city.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 119.33 APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Advertisement. Before an application for a license shall be
considered, the applicant must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an
alcoholic beverage license in the newspaper used by the city for legal notices
under KRS 424.120. The notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant
and the name and address of each principal owner, partner, member, officer, and
director if the applicant is a partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, governmental agency, or other business entity
recognized by law. All advertisements shall state the location of the proposed
premises for which the license is sought, and the type of business, and type of
license for which application is made.
      (2)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping
of the advertisement.
   (B)   Form of application. 
      (1)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the Kentucky ABC Board and/or the city, both of which may be amended and
supplemented from time to time by each respective agency.
      (2)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail
such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought, as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the State
Department, and the city, including as follows:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date of residence was established in Kentucky if a resident of
Kentucky.
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license under this subchapter;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership;
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
      (3)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cashier
check, or money order for the amount of the license fee, less the $50
application fee.
      (4)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file, with the application, responses to any additional questions as may be
posed or prescribed by the City ABC Administrator. The City Council has adopted
a statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses within
this subchapter to determine the extent to which applications may further, or
impede, the objectives of those guidelines. Therefore, in addition to the
information contained in the application, the City ABC Administrator may
require such other information as the Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, deem desirable, reasonable, or appropriate to the consideration of
the application.
   (C)   Other conditions. In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or
considerations required or permitted by law:
      (1)   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by a licensed building inspector,
and any and all other inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code or
other applicable law;
      (2)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any property taxes,
both real and personal, any other taxes due to the city, fees of any type, or
charges due to any department of the city at the time of issuing the license,
nor may any license be granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee upon which there are any of the
above delinquent payments due and owing to the city. Further, if a licensee
becomes delinquent in the payment of any of the above at any time during the
license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be subject
to revocation or suspension.
      (3)   No person, whether applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the City
ABC Administrator, or any member of the city’s staff, or any state ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a city or state ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted to prohibit
monetary settlements in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a
final order or revocation or suspension, where this subchapter and applicable
statutes allow for such payments in settlement.
   (D)   Denial of licenses. 
      (1)   The City ABC Administrator may deny a city license for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for
suspension or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for
state licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as
violation of any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or
the administration thereof.
         (b)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of
license would be authorized under local, state, or federal law; or
         (c)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
      (2)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the City ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the state Board pursuant to division
(K) below of this section.
   (E)   Form of license. All city licenses shall be in such form as may be
provided by the ABC Administrator, but at the least shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   The number of the license;
      (3)   The type of license;
      (4)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
      (5)   The expiration date of the license;
      (6)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property
or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
   (F)   Change of information.
      (1)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the City ABC Administrator with ten days of the change.
      (2)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The
City ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
      (3)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word “change” is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (4)   The following information shall be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding
a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership;
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (5)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
   (G)   Renewal of license.
      (1)   Every year, except in the case of the temporary licenses, each
licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
City ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
exiting lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting
forth these facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to
extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length
of time within the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. Said license fee shall not by payable until
application is made for the transfer of said license to a new location.
      (2)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not
be construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior
to such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the
licensee.
   (H)   Lost or destroyed license. When a license shall be lost or destroyed
without fault on the part of the licensee or his or her agent or employee, a
duplicate in lieu of the original license shall be issued by the City ABC
Administrator after the Administrator shall have been satisfied as to the
facts; provided, however, that the applicant for said duplicate license shall
pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate license.
   (I)   Revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC
Administrator if the licensee shall have violated any of other provisions of
KRS Ch. 241 to 244, or any rule or regulation cf the state Board, or of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue, relating to the regulation of the manufacture,
sale, and transportation, or taxation, of alcoholic beverages or if such
licensee shall have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any rule
or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission, or this subchapter
now, heretofore, or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, and transportation, or taxation, of intoxicating liquors, or
any rules or regulations of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by
the terms of KRS Ch. 241 to 244 to be created, irrespective of whether the
licensee knew of or permitted the violation or whether the violation was
committed is disobedience of his or her instructions.
      (2)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City
ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be
revoked or suspended for the following causes:
         (a)   Conviction of the licensee or the licensee's agent, servant, or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
         (b)   Making any false, material statements in an application or
renewal application for a license or supplemental license.
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee's agents,
servants, or employees of:
            1.   Two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapters 241
to 244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale, and transportation of
alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years;
            2.   Two misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the
use of alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years; or
            3.   Any felony.
         (d)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any
part of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any
statutes, ordinances, or Acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a
violation of any related administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Revenue.
         (e)   Revocation of any state license provided in KRS 243.030,
243.040, or permit granted ruder any Act of Congress relative to the regulation
of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages.
         (f)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook, or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook, or facility. This division shall not apply
to:
            1.   The sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS
Chapter 154A;
            2.   The operation of a pari-mutuel system for betting, where
authorized by law;
            3.   The conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization
licensed or permitted under KRS Chapter 238; or
            4.   Special temporary raffles of alcoholic beverages under KRS
243.036.
         (g)   Conviction of the licensee, the licensee's agents, servants, or
employees for:
            1.   The trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Chapter 218A, including
synthetic drugs;
            2.   Knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons
upon the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS
Chapter 218A, including synthetic drugs; or
            3.   Knowingly receiving stolen property upon the licensed
premises.
         (h)   Failure to comply with the terms of the City Administrator.
   (J)   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license.
      (1)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of
any law enforcement officer, or of the City ABC Administrator, the City ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this subchapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
      (2)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall provide constitutional due process rights to the
City ABC license holder.
      (3)   A decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed to Board as provided in KRS 241.200 and KRS 243.550.
      (4)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the City ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of
Police, at the request of the City ABC Administrator, shall immediately cause
one of his or her officers to take physical possession of the license and
return it to the City ABC Administrator.
      (5)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee
may, with prior approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer
his or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
      (6)   An appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking
or suspending a license shall be to the state Board pursuant to division (K)
below. The timely filing of an appeal shall stay further proceedings for
revocation.
      (7)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall suspend all
operations authorized under his or her license upon finality and effectiveness
of the order. Upon finality of any final order of the state Board sustaining or
ordering revocation or suspension on appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend
all operations authorized under the suspended or revoked license.
   (K)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken
to the state ABC Board by filing a notice of appeal with the Board within 30
days after the decision or order of the County ABC Administrator is mailed or
delivered by personal service. The notice of appeal shall specify the county
administrator by name and shall identify the decision or order, or part of the
decision or order, being appealed. The notice shall contain a certificate that
a copy of the notice has been served on the City ABC Administrator and shall be
accompanied by a copy of the decision or order being appealed. Matters
at issue shall be heard by the board as upon an original proceeding. Appeals
from decisions or orders of the county administrator shall be governed by KRS
Chapter 13B.
      (2)   As provided by law no appealed City ABC Administrator order or
decision, or resulting state Board order, shall become effective or final until
all Board appeals, court appeals, or appeal times shall have been exhausted.
When a Board order becomes final and effective, the City ABC Administrator
shall enter such orders and take such action as required by the final order of
the Board.
   (L)   Transfer or assignment. No license issued under this chapter shall be
transferred or assigned either as to licensee or location except with prior
approval of the City ABC Administrator and not then until a payment of $100
shall be made to the City ABC Administrator.
   (M)   Review of license; books, records and reports.
      (1)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter
shall provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions
of any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant's business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant's quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee's acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identity each catered event by type of event, date and address of
the event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular
quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have discretion in determining
whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a
reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is
demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the food
sale percentage requirement has been met.
      (2)   Every licensee under this subchapter shall keep and maintain, upon
the licensed premises, adequate books and records of all transactions involved
in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (N)   Dormancy.
      (1)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
      (2)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period
of 90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (3) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
      (3)   The provisions of division (2) above shall not apply to any
licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease. Prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall
furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the
fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business, for any of the
specific reasons set forth herein, and the City ABC Administrator may grant an
extension of the dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect
during the license period or until same is transferred to another premises,
notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during said period;
provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless business is
conducted thereunder within 12 months from the date of notice to the City ABC
Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be
for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of
his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.34 HOURS FOR SALE.
   (A)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be
permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   Said licensee shall be permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/
or malt beverages after the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight on Saturday) to 1:00
a.m. on Sunday.
   (C)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be
permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages on Sunday after
the hours of 1:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. Licensees must obtain a Sunday retail
drink license in order to sell distilled spirits or wine by the drink on
Sunday.
   (D)   A licensee may sell distilled spirits, wine, and/or malt beverages on
New Year's Eve until 2:00 a.m. on January 1, regardless of the day of the week
on which New Year's Eve occurs; provided that, the appropriate licenses have
been obtained from both the City and the State ABC Board.
   (E)   Licensees which operate as (golf courses, private clubs, distilleries,
etc) shall be allowed to sell distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages by the
drink on Sunday between the hours of 1:00 p.m. until 12:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.35 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Gambling. No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by
the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines, quarter pushers, prize redemption machines with
programmable payouts, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall not be
kept on such premises.
   (B)   Prevention of disorderly premises; security. The licensee shall be
responsible for keeping the premises orderly and must maintain adequate
security for the premises to ensure the safety, health and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensee premises.
   (C)   Prizes and premiums prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a licensee to
give away or offer to give away anything tangible of value as a premium or
prize, or for any other purpose in direct connection with the sale of malt
beverages unless permitted by KRS 244.500.
   (D)   Treating prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this
subchapter to give away any alcoholic beverage to a consumer in any quantity
for free or for less than for less than paid or current wholesale cost, unless
the licensee holds a sampling license or its license type permits limited free
samples (i.e., small farm winery, microbrewery, brewer's), or a bona fide
“close out” sale approved by the state Administrators.
   (E)   Intoxicated persons, drunkenness. The licensee shall not sell, give,
or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any person who appears to a reasonable
person to be actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic beverages,
controlled substances, other intoxicating substances, or any of these
substances in combination, to the degree that the person may endanger any
person or property, or unreasonably annoy persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Underage sales. The licensee shall not sell, give, or deliver any
alcoholic beverages to any person who is under 21 years of age, or permit same.
   (G)   Sign requirements-notice to persons under the age of 21. Per state
law, the licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least 8" x 11" in 30 point or larger type font which states as follows:
   “Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) if they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.”
   (H)   License to be displayed.
      (1)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license
has been issued, shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in
the room or principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons
visiting the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any
time post the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon
premises where traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person
other than the license, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in
any respect.
      (2)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons
a printed sign at least 8" x 11" with gender-neutral language supplied by the
Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Services, which shall warn that drinking
alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy can cause birth
defects.
   (I)   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retail. No
wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any person in
the city for any consideration except under cash terms of the wholesaler or
distributor at or before the time of delivery. A wholesaler is also permitted
to extend credit for 30 days to a retailer for the purchase of distilled
spirits and wine.
   (J)   Employment restrictions. No licensee shall knowingly employ in
connection with his or her business any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years unless
permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
      (2)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years unless permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
      (3)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute, unless said person is exempt or permitted by
KRS 244.090 or KRS 244.087;
      (4)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has
had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
   (K)   Lavatory facilities required. All retail beer and retail drink
licenses shall be required to provide indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for
their customers where such beverages are consumed on the premises.
   (L)   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited. No licensee
shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities, including nude or
nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide or stage shows,
cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed premise. No licensee
shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or simulated, upon any
licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet t-shirt or wet
clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, Jell-O wrestling or
similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with touching for
compensation (including but not limited to wages, tips or gratuities), or any
other service, display or contest requiring physical contact between patrons
and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises. No licensee shall
sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink specials or free
drinks on any licensed premise in the city.
   (M)   Cause for revocation. Violation of this and any other section shall
subject the licensee to penalties provided in this subchapter and shall be
cause for revocation or suspension of city licenses.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.36 MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Ch. 241 to 244, no person
under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any licensed
premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Except as permitted by KRS 244.085 and 804 KAR 5:070, no person under
the age of 21, may remain on any premises licensed for the package sale of
alcoholic beverages unless in the company of a parent or guardian. No person
under the age of 21 may enter any premises licensed for drink sales of
alcoholic beverages unless permitted by KRS 244.085(5) and 804 KAR 5:070. The
prohibition contained in this division shall not apply to premises where the
usual and customary business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience
store, grocery store, drugstore, and other business types listed in KRS 244.085
and by the state Board in 804 KAR 5:070.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly permit, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licenses, as set out in this subchapter, shall require proof of
age of all persons attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals' possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.37 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises unless it also holds the appropriate drink license.
The licensee shall post a prominent notice on the premises stating that
consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises is prohibited.
   (B)   This restriction regarding on premises consumption shall not prohibit
sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the provisions of KRS
Ch. 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail distilled spirits and wine
licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or beer tastings as permitted in
804 KAR 11:030.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.38 ENFORCEMENT.
   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator and his or her
investigator(s) are hereby authorized to enforce this subchapter in full.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 119.39 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and/or serving of alcoholic
beverages shall participate in and complete a Responsible Beverage Serving
(“RBS”) program acceptable to the City ABC Administrator.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premise licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty as described herein.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 119.40 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the city, including but not limited to,
the Planning and Zoning Ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be
amended in the future.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this subchapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test”, “high proof' or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
   (E)   No licensee shall erect or allow to be erected any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (F)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed
from the inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs,
banners, posters or other type of displaying advertising which refers either
directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall
it be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name
of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and
one-half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars, or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally
owned property or at any municipally sponsored event.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 119.41 SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT.
   (A)   Sidewalk Café Permit.
      (1)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request a
permit to use sidewalk as an adjunct to the primary and adjacent licensed
premises to serve food and alcoholic beverages there. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
      (2)   Any licensee/restaurant that is licensed under this subchapter and
the provisions of the state ABC laws, may, upon application to the local ABC
Administrator, ask permission to expand the operation of the business/
restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public sidewalk which
immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as “sidewalk
café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to apply for a
sidewalk café permit.
   (B)   Conditions for Sidewalk Café Permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions; provided, however, that
the ABC Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
café where necessary in the judgment of the said Administrator to protect the
public health, safety or welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing.
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when
the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the
end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas,
tables, chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area
shown on the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to insure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
      (8)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
   (C)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés. No sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the City
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such
sidewalk café, in an amount to be established by the City Attorney and the
City's Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named an additional insured in the
policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it
may not be canceled except upon ten day’s written notice (or more) filed with
the ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 119.42 IMPLEMENTATION OF ORDINANCE PROVISIONS; SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Implementation of changes in ordinance provisions. The City Council
may promulgate rules and regulations, and/or amendments thereto, as is in its
discretion in order to ensure the proper implementation of this subchapter.
Such will be done according to local, state, and federal law.
   (B)   Severability. If any section of this subchapter, including but not
limited to, any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or
any other portion of this subchapter, is declared illegal or unconstitutional,
or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration
shall not affect the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The sale of alcoholic beverages within the city not in conformity with
§§
119.01 through
119.17 shall constitute a violation, punishable by fine of up to $500 for each
offense, to be prosecuted as all other municipal ordinance violations are
prosecuted. Each day of each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in the Hardin
District Court against an alleged violator, the City ABC Administrator may
assess civil fines in lieu of suspension as authorized in KRS 243.480,
including the per diem assessments for ongoing violations. Payment of all fines
shall be remitted to the City ABC Administrator, who shall then transmit the
fines to the City Clerk for deposit in the appropriate designated account.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and subject to prosecution in the Hardin County Court system,
as follows: for the first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$200 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.
The penalties provided for in this division (C) shall be in addition to the
revocation or suspension of the offender’s license. If the offender is a
corporation, LLC, joint stock company, association or other business
organization, or a fiduciary, the principal officer or officers responsible for
the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 2023-04, passed 9-11-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Discharging high-powered weapons
   
130.03   Obstruction of drainage or natural watercourse
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires actual
or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable, prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or, as may be otherwise phrased,
any person of the age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (2)   As a legal guardian;
         (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, parking lot, street or highway.
   (B)   Curfew times.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, parking lot, street or
highway within the city at night during the following periods:
         (a)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
         (b)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
         (c)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday;
         (d)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday;
         (e)   12:00 a.m. Friday to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (f)   12:00 a.m. Saturday to 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
         (g)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow the minor to be or remain in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, parking lot, street or highway in the city under
circumstances not constituting an exception as enumerated in division (C) below
during the time periods contained in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Exceptions. In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any
public assembly, building, place, parking lot, street or highway in the city
during the nocturnal hours provided for in division (B)(1) above shall not be
considered in violation of this section:
      (1)   When a minor is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
the minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in the possession of the minor specifying when,
where and in what manner the minor will be exercising such First Amendment
rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after the minor’s parent
has communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing the reasonable
necessity;
      (5)   When returning home, by a direct route from and within one hour of
the termination of a school activity, or any activity of religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of the event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Police Department;
      (6)   When attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the school system, any duly
accredited private school system, a civic organization or another similar
entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home
from, without any detour or stop, an official school, religious or other
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (7)   When engaged in business or occupation which state laws authorized
a person under 18 years of age to perform;
      (8)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver while the vehicle is traveling on a public street or
highway;
      (9)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by a direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the
city, including all minors that may also be within the vehicle; and/or
      (10)   When the minor is involved in an emergency.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, parking lot, street or highway
reasonably believed to be in violation of this section, shall follow the duties
of a police officer set forth in KRS 610.200 through 610.280, which governs the
taking or receiving of a child into custody on a charge of committing an
offense. All other provisions of the Unified Juvenile Code shall apply.
      (2)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (C) above is present.
      (3)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, parking lot, street or highway,
whose parent is believed to be in violation of this section, shall confront the
minor and request the information as his or her name, age and address of his or
her parent.
      (4)   This section is not exclusive of KRS 405.025.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING HIGH-POWERED WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to discharge a
high-powered weapon within the populated city limits of the city.
   (B)   It shall be lawful to discharge a shotgun on any land zoned
agriculture by the Planning and Zoning Department of the city, providing the
land does not violate division (A) above.
   (C)   The term HIGH-POWERED WEAPON shall mean any rifle .22 caliber or
above. The term “person” or “organization” shall exclude all law enforcement
officials in the course of the performance of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAINAGE OR NATURAL WATERCOURSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any drainage or natural
watercourse so as to cause the drainage or water to overflow or to cause the
water to stand or become stagnant and it shall be unlawful to place any
obstruction in a street or alley of the city which in any manner prevents the
proper drainage of the street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
      
155.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code, Standards of Safety and the
International Property Maintenance Code; enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE, STANDARDS OF SAFETY AND THE
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The most current version of the state’s Building Code, as contained in
815 KAR 7, the state’s Plumbing Code, as contained in 815 KAR 20, the state’s
Standards of Safety, as contained in 815 KAR 10, together with any amendments,
are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of
ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be
placed on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, where they shall be
available for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The most current version of the International Property Maintenance
Code, regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures, by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use, the condemnation
of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the
demolition of such existing structures in the city, providing for the issuance
of permits and collection of fees therefore.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the state’s Building Code shall be extended to all
construction and remodeling, including single-family and multi-family
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial buildings, public buildings, sheds,
garages, barns and mobile and modular homes within the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the state’s Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless
and/or until a local Board of Housing Appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter
198B, is established to hear the appeals.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of Comprehensive Plan
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The city’s Comprehensive Plan is adopted as the official plan to stand until
amended or until a successor plan is adopted.
(Prior Code, § 151.01)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Enacting clause
   
152.002   Title; map adopted
   
152.003   Purpose
   
152.004   Interpretation
   
152.005   Conflict of ordinance
   
152.006   Plans and construction in progress
   
152.007   Definitions
Zoning Districts
   
152.020   Zoning district map
   
152.021   Map amendment identification
   
152.022   Interpretation of zone and district boundaries
   
152.023   Application of zoning district regulations
   
152.024   Conversion of dwelling structures
   
152.025   Agricultural land use exemptions
   
152.026   Governmental use exemptions
   
152.027   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.028   A Agricultural District
   
152.029   R-1 Single-Family Low Density District
   
152.030   R-2 Single-Family Medium Density District
   
152.031   R-3 Single-Family Manufactured District
   
152.032   R-4 Two-Family and Multi-Family District
   
152.033   R-5 Single-Family Manufactured Home Parks District
   
152.034   B-1 Neighborhood Business District
   
152.035   B-2 Central Business District
   
152.036   C-1 Highway Commercial District
   
152.037   L-I Light Industrial District
General Regulations
   
152.050   Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
152.051   Conditional use regulations
   
152.052   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
152.053   Required street frontage
   
152.054   Height restrictions
   
152.055   Rear dwellings, reduction in lot area prohibited
   
152.056   Approved sewerage disposal for buildings
   
152.057   Regulation of principal buildings
   
152.058   Sinkholes
   
152.059   Floodplains
   
152.060   Lots and yards
   
152.061   Signs and outdoor advertising
   
152.062   Vehicles; parking requirements
Special Regulations
   
152.075   Manufactured housing
   
152.076   Manufactured home parks
   
152.077   Apartment houses
   
152.078   Junk yards
   
152.079   Fences, walls and obstruction to view regulations
   
152.080   Exceptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.095   Administrative duties of Planning Commission
   
152.096   Planning Commission
   
152.097   Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
152.098   Clarification of administrative jurisdictions
   
152.099   Building permits required
   
152.100   Building permit issuance and fee
   
152.101   Compliance with other codes, statutes and regulations
   
152.102   Certificate of occupancy
   
152.103   Authorized use
   
152.104   Complaints regarding violations
   
152.105   Map amendment procedures
   
152.106   Zoning text amendments
   
152.107   Zoning district for annexed territory
   
152.108   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
152.109   Violations
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 ENACTING CLAUSE.
   By adoption of this chapter, the city wishes to exercise the authority
granted by the Kentucky Constitution, and KRS 100.201 through 100.271 to a
legislative body to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories and
size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be
occupied, the size of yards, courts and open spaces, the density of population
and the location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes, that the city be divided into districts as
hereinafter described, and that the regulations, restrictions and boundaries of
districts shall be established, enforced and amended as provided in this
regulation.
(Prior Code, § 152.001)
§ 152.002 TITLE; MAP ADOPTED.
   This regulation shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance for West Point,
Kentucky.” The map herein referred to, which is identified by the title “West
Point Zoning District Map,” dated January 14,1998 thereon, is hereby adopted
and made a part of this regulation.
(Prior Code, § 152.002)
§ 152.003 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth have been made in
accordance with the Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of promoting the public
health, safety, goals and convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of
the community. They have been designed to lessen congestion in the streets to
secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers, to provide adequate light and
air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of
population, to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage control, schools, parks and other public requirements. They have been
made with reasonable consideration, among other things, as to the character of
each district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view
of conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use
of land throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 152.003)
§ 152.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions herein shall be interpreted broadly and liberally so as
to implement and protect the purposes for which they are enacted.
   (B)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, the provisions
herein shall be held to be of the minimum or maximum requirements (as stated);
adopted for the promotion of the health, safety, morals, comfort, prosperity,
well-being and general welfare.
   (C)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abdicate, annul or in
any way impair or interfere with any private restrictions placed upon property
such as covenants, deeds or recorded plats; provided, however, where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or
upon the height of buildings or requires greater lot areas, larger yards or
other open spaces, than are imposed by such private restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 152.004)
§ 152.005 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever this chapter, or subdivision plats or development plans
approved in conformance with these regulations, are in conflict with applicable
state statutes, or other local ordinances, regulations or laws, the more
restrictive statute, ordinance, regulation, plat or plan shall govern and shall
be enforced by the appropriate local agency.
      (2)   When subdivision and development plans, approved by the Planning
Commission, contain setbacks or other features in excess of the minimum
ordinance requirements, the features as shown on the approved plans shall
govern and shall be enforced by the Planning Commission or authorized
enforcement agent. Private deed restrictions or private covenants for a
subdivision do not fall within the jurisdiction of enforcement by any local
agency and cannot be enforced by the city’s Planning Commission.
   (B)   In case of conflict between this regulation, and any part thereof, and
the whole or part of any existing or future ordinance of the city or the whole
or part of any existing or future private covenants of deeds, the most
restrictive in each case shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 152.005)
§ 152.006 PLANS AND CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS.
   (A)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
or premises on which an application for a permit was filed with the Planning
Commission prior to the date of adoption of this chapter or amendment thereto,
providing that the application meets all zoning and other requirements in
effect on the date of the application.
   (B)   The permit issued pursuant to applications made before the date of
adoptions of this chapter shall be valid only if it is exercised within one
year of the date of issuance of the permit. EXERCISED, as set forth in this
section, shall mean that a binding contract for the construction of the main
building or other main improvements are under construction, or that
prerequisite conditions involving substantial investments shall be under
contract, in development or completed. When construction is not a part of the
use, EXERCISED shall mean that the use is in operation in compliance with the
conditions set forth in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 152.006)
§ 152.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the singular number include the plural, words in the plural
number include the singular.
   ABANDONED SIGN. An on-premises sign, the use for which it represents having
been discontinued for a period of 30 consecutive days.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure subordinate to the principal
use or building on a lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental thereto,
including structures such as satellite antennas.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. Any department, employee or advisory, elected or
appointed body which is authorized to administer any provision of the zoning
regulation, subdivision regulations and, if delegated, any provision of any
housing or building regulation or any other land use control regulation.
   AGRICULTURE USE. The use of a tract of land of at least five contiguous
acres for the production of agricultural or horticultural crops, including but
not limited to livestock, livestock products, poultry, poultry products, grain,
hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco, timber, orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers
or ornamental plants, including provisions for dwellings for persons and their
families who are engaged in the above AGRICULTURAL USE on the tract, but not
including residential building development for sale or lease to the public.
   ALLEY. A public or private vehicular way which affords a means of access to
the rear or side of properties adjacent to it and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. For the purpose of this regulation an apartment house means
any building which is designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied or which is occupied as the home or residence of more than two
families living independently of each other with cooking facilities for each
family.
   ASSEMBLY. A joining together of completely fabricated parts to create a
finished product.
   BASEMENT. An area below the first floor, having part but no more than one-
half of its height above grade, used for storage space by occupants of the
building, janitor quarters or other utilities common to the rest of the
building. A BASEMENT used for the above purposes shall not be counted as a
story.
   BASIC MANUFACTURE. The first operation or operation which transforms a
material from its raw state to a form suitable for fabrication.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An establishment providing lodging and meals in a
residential setting for overnight guest.
   BILLBOARD. Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, with an area
of 300 or more square feet, and also all those used as an outdoor display for
the purpose of making anything known, the origin or place of sale of which is
not on the plot with the display, except that governmental notices shall not be
considered as BILLBOARDS.
   BUFFER AREA. A strip of land which is located along the perimeter of a piece
of property and is a minimum of five feet wide and contains all perimeter
landscaping as specified in this chapter, such as open spaces, landscaped areas
(including screen trees), fences, walls, berms or any combination thereof used
to physically separate or screen one use or property from another so as to
visually shield or block noise, lights or other nuisances.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property. Include
fences.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A document issued by the administrative official
authorizing the use of lots and structures, uses of land and structures and the
characteristics of the uses.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line in the interior of a lot which is generally
parallel to, and a specified distance from, the street right-of-way line or
lines. No building shall then be placed in the space between the BUILDING
SETBACK LINE and the right-of-way.
   CAMPGROUND. A plot of ground upon which two or more campsites are located,
established or maintained for occupancy by camping units such as temporary
living quarters for recreation, education or vacation purposes.
   CARPORT. Space for the housing or storage of motor vehicles, camper trailers
or boats and enclosed on not more than two sides by walls.
   CENTER LINE OF A STREET. The center of the surfaced roadway or the surveyed
center line of the street, as defined by the City Engineer or authorized
representative.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility providing direct care and protection of five
or more infants, preschool and school age children outside of their own homes,
during a portion of a 24-hour day.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship, and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. Buildings and facilities, the purpose of which is to render a
social, educational or recreational service to members and their guests and not
primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a business or to render
a profit. PRIVATE CLUB shall include country club.
   COMMERCIAL WAREHOUSE. A building or portion thereof used for storage of any
property not permitted in a residential storage warehouse. This shall not be
deemed to include the storage area in connection with a purely retail business
when located on the same property.
   COMMISSION. The West Point Planning Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive, long-range plan intended to guide the
growth and development of a community or region that typically includes
inventory and analytic sections leading to recommendations for the community’s
future economic development, housing, recreation and open space,
transportation, community facilities and land use, all related to the
community’s goals and objectives for these elements.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is essential to or would promote the public
health, safety or welfare in one or more zones, but which would impair the
integrity and character of the zone in which it is located, or in adjoining
zones, unless restrictions on location, size, extent and character of
performance are imposed in addition to those imposed in the zoning regulation.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A legal authorization to undertake a conditional
use, issued by the administrative official pursuant to authorization by the
Board of Adjustment, consisting of two parts:
      (1)   A statement of the factual determination by the Board of
Adjustments which justifies the issuance of the permit; and
      (2)   A statement of the specific conditions which must be met in order
for the use to be permitted.
   DETACHED STRUCTURE. A structure having no common wall with another structure
except an accessory structure.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A noncommercial sign of an instructional nature, such as
parking, exit or entrance, displayed solely for the convenience of the public.
No more than 25% of the sign shall be devoted to the name or logo of the
property, business of profession on the site and containing no business
advertising, product trade name identification or listing of any product sold
or offered on the premises.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities provided within the DWELLING UNIT for the exclusive use of a single-
family maintaining a household.
   FABRICATION. Manufacturing, excluding the refining or other initial
processing of basic raw materials such as metal ores, lumber or rubber.
FABRICATION relates to stamping, cutting or otherwise shaping the processed
materials into useful objects.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single,
non-profit housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose, screen or separate areas.
   FLAT SIGN. Any sign painted on or affixed to a building and which sign does
not project more than six inches from the building.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign having a conspicuous and/or intermittent variation
in the illumination.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, measured from the exterior faces on the exterior walls or from the
center line of walls separating two buildings, but not including:
      (1)   Attic space providing headroom of less than seven feet; and
      (2)   Basement space.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A space or structure, including a carport, on the same lot
with or in the buildings to which it is accessory, primarily for storage only
of automobiles of the residents of the premises.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade, street grade or finished grade at the building line, whichever
is highest, to the highest point of the building.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign including the frame and any embellishments whichever is greater.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Occupations of dressmaking, handicrafts, millinery,
laundering, preserving, home cooking, sales or professional services, but
excluding barber shops and beauty parlors, but only when the permitted
occupations are performed under all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to use for dwelling
purposes;
      (2)   The use is conducted entirely within a dwelling unit and not in any
accessory building;
      (3)   The use is carried on only by residents of the dwelling;
      (4)   The use does not require external alteration of the dwelling; and
      (5)   The use does not adversely affect the uses permitted in the
immediate neighborhood and does not substantially increase traffic generation
or noise.
   HIGHWAY. See STREET.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building in which lodging or boarding are provided and
offered to the public for compensation. As it is open to the public in
contradiction to a boarding house, rooming house, lodging house or dormitory
which is herein separately defined.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign designed to emit or brightly reflect artificial
light from any source fixed or incidental.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A small sign, not exceeding two square feet, limited to
information and directions related to the permitted use on the lot or building
on which the sign is located and containing no direct illumination. Examples of
INCIDENTAL SIGNS would include no smoking, restroom, no solicitors, no
trespassing, self service, vacancy, credit card acceptance signs, signs
indicating hours of business and similar information.
   INDUSTRY. A specific branch of business that obtains its salable items
through the assembly of parts into a complete product or through the
transformation of a raw material into a finished product.
      (1)   HEAVY INDUSTRY. Those industries whose processing of products
results in the emission of any atmospheric pollutant, light flashes or glare,
odors, noise or vibration which may be heard or felt off the premises, and
those industries which constitute a fire or explosion hazard. Due to the
confined topography of the city, all heavy industrial uses are prohibited
within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   LIGHT INDUSTRY. Those industries whose processing of products
results in none of the above conditions.
   INSTITUTION FOR CHILDREN OR THE AGED. An establishment providing residence
and care for children or the aged.
   JUNK. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material or debris, whether or not
stored, for sale or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed,
salvaged, stored, baled, disposed or other use or disposition. Examples of
which include tires, vehicle parts, equipment, paper, rags, metal, glass,
building materials, household appliances, machinery, brush, wood and lumber.
More than two unregistered or inoperable vehicles constitute JUNK.
   JUNK YARD. Any area, lot, land or parcel where junk is kept as defined
herein or waste or discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged,
stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled, handled, including auto wrecking
yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for use of salvaged house wrecking
structural steel materials and equipment. A JUNK YARD is a prohibited use
within the corporate limits of the city.
   LABORATORY. A building or part of building devoted to the testing and
analysis of any product or animal (including humans). No manufacturing is
conducted on the premises except for experimental or testing purposes.
   LOADING SPACE. Logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and
deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicle expected to be used and accessible to
the vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled. Required off-
street loading space is not to be included as off-street, parking in
computation of required off-street parking space. All off-street loading spaces
shall be located totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   LOT. Includes plot or parcel.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets or abutting upon two
adjoining and deflected lines of the same street and thereby forming an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees. CORNER LOTS shall be construed to have
front yards along each abutting street, one rear yard and one side yard.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing,
testing and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character, require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation and
normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare,
air pollution and water pollution, but not beyond the district boundary. Due to
the confined topography of the city, all heavy industrial uses are prohibited
within the corporate limits of the city.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations, relatively clean, quiet and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor or dust,
operating and storing within enclosed structures and generating little
industrial traffic and no nuisance.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A manufactured building or portion of a building
designed for long-term residential use having the following features or
characteristics:
      (1)   Mass produced in a factory;
      (2)   Designed and constructed for transportation to a site for
installation and use when connected to required utilities; and
      (3)   Either an independent, individual building or a module for
combination with other elements to form a building on the site.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured building or portion of a building designed for
one family, long-term residential use having the following features or
characteristics:
      (1)   It was built in a factory;
      (2)   It was designed and constructed for transportation to a site for
installation and use when connected to the required utilities; and
      (3)   Consisted of either an independent, individual building or module
for combination with other elements to form a building on the site, i.e., any
structure fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or
assembly at the building site as a permanent structure with transport features
removed, bearing a seal certifying that it was built in compliance with the
Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Code as set forth
in 24 C.F.R. parts 3280, 3282 and 42 U.S.C. § 5401, and as mandated by the
United States as administered by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development and commonly referred to as the HUD Code. Single-family
structures must meet the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.) commonly known as the HUD (United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development) code, as well as the
state’s Building Code structural and installation requirements, found at 815
KAR 7.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, or tract of land under single ownership, upon
which three or more mobile homes used for habitation are parked, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of
the park. A mobile home park may only be located in an R-5 District.
   MOBILE SIGNS. A sign which is affixed to a frame having wheels or capable of
being moved, or otherwise portable, which does not have a permanent foundation.
The mere removal of wheels or temporary securing of a sign to a surface of real
estate shall not prevent its being a mobile sign within this definition.
   MODULAR HOUSING UNIT. A single-family residential unit that is built in
sections off-site and transported to the site for assembly to become a
permanent fixture upon that property site. This type of housing includes a set
of standards which clarify the difference between mobile homes and modular
units, such as:
      (1)   Has more than 950 feet of occupied space and is composed of more
than one section;
      (2)   Is placed onto a permanent under floor support system in accordance
with specified installation standards;
      (3)   Is placed onto a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
certain installation standards;
      (4)   Has wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      (5)   Has siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
homes, such as board siding, plywood or presswood siding, vinyl, stucco, brick,
non-reflective aluminum and the like; and
      (6)   Has roofing material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
homes, such as wood, tile, composition shingles or other materials compatible
with the conventionally built residential structures in the neighborhood which
shall be installed on a surface pitched at a minimum slope of 3:12.
   MUSEUM. A non-profit, noncommercial establishment operated as a repository
or a collection of nature, scientific or literary curiosities or objects of
interest or works of art, not including the regular sale or distribution of the
objects collected.
   NONCONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE. Nonconforming use or structure means an
activity or a building, sign, structure or a portion thereof which lawfully
existed before the adoption or amendment of the zoning regulation, but which
does not conform to all of the regulations contained in the zoning regulation
which pertains to the zone in which it is located.
   NURSERY, NURSING HOME. A home or facility for the care and treatment of
babies, children, pensioners or elderly people.
   OCCUPIED. Includes arranged, designed or intended to be occupied.
   OFFICE. A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government and generally furnished
with desks, tables, files and communication equipment. A professional office
business establishment is considered to lie within an office building for the
purposes of signage regulations when three or more of the following occur:
      (1)   The establishments are within one building;
      (2)   The establishments are on the same lot;
      (3)   The establishments share parking;
      (4)   When the establishments are within more than one building, the
buildings have similar setback; and
      (5)   The establishments share an ingress or egress.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that advertises goods, products, services or
facilities or directs persons to a different location from where the sign is
installed.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign identifying or advertising a business, person,
activity, goods, products or services located on the premises where the sign is
installed and maintained.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment or for the use and enjoyment of owners, occupants and their guests of
land adjoining or neighboring the open space.
   PARISH HOUSE. A residence for a minister, priest or rabbi in connection with
the operation of a church or synagogue.
   PARKING LOT OR AREA. An off-street area used for the parking of any type of
vehicle, whether moving or at rest, including but not limited to, parking lots,
loading and unloading areas, mobile home parks and sales and services areas.
Driveways, access ways, aisles and maneuvering areas are also considered a part
of the parking lots or areas.
   PARKING SPACE. A space on private land, accessible from a street or alley,
not less than nine feet wide and 18 feet long exclusive of passageways.
   PERMITTED STRUCTURE. A structure meeting all the requirements established by
this chapter for the district in which the structure is located.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSON. Includes association, firm, partnership, trust, governmental body,
corporation, organization, as well as an individual.
   PRESCHOOL. Day care and education of five or more children under legal age
to attend public or private grammar school.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A building in which is conducted a principal or
conditional use. In any Residential Zone, any structure containing a dwelling
unit shall be deemed a principal structure on the lot on which the same is
located. Where a nonconforming use is the primary use on the property, the
building in which it is located shall be deemed a principal structure.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools and administrative, and cultural,
buildings and structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely
to the storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities.
   RECREATION FACILITIES. Public or private facilities that may be classified
as either extensive or intensive depending upon the scope of services offered
and the extent of use. Extensive facilities generally require and utilize
considerable areas of land and include, but need not be limited to hunting,
fishing and riding clubs, and parks. Intensive facilities generally require
less land (used more intensively) and include, but need not be limited to,
miniature golf courses, amusement parks, stadium and bowling alleys.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis designed
to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck and designed
primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a temporary living
quarters for recreational camping, travel and seasonal use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreation or vacation purposes. See CAMPGROUND.
   RESIDENTIAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE. A building or portion thereof designed or
used exclusively for storing the excess personal property of an individual or
family when it is not located on the lot with the residence, such as passenger
motor vehicle, house trailer, motorcycle, boat, camper and other items of
personal property generally stored in residential accessory structures. This
shall not include the storage of any merchandise, stock furnishings or vehicles
of a business of any kind.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served and
consumed primarily within the principal building. See RESTAURANT, TAKE-OUT and
RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   RESTAURANT, TAKE-OUT. An establishment where food and/or beverages are sold
in a form ready for consumption, where all or a significant portion of the
consumption takes place or is designed to take place outside the confines of
the restaurant, and where ordering and pickup of food may take place from an
automobile.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any fixed facility in which food or drink is
offered or prepared primarily for retail sale.
   RETAIL SALES. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption.
   RETAIL SALES, OUTDOOR. The display and sale of products and services
primarily outside of a building or structure, including vehicles, garden
supplies, gas, tires and motor oil, food and beverages, boats and aircraft,
farm equipment, motor homes, burial monuments, building and landscape materials
and lumber yards.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities and may include special features,
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges.
   ROAD. See STREET.
   ROADWORTHY. Fit to be driven or towed in a safe condition on public roads.
   SEAT. For the purposes of determining the number of off-street parking
spaces for certain uses, the number of SEATS is the number of seating units
installed or indicated, or each 24 lineal inches of benches, pews or space for
loose chairs.
   SETBACK LINE. That line that is the required minimum distance from any lot
line and that establishes the area within which the principal structure must be
erected or placed.
   SHALL. Is always mandatory and not merely directive.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway, which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
   SIGN. Any writing, pictorial representation, form, emblem, trademarks, flag,
banner, decoration (including material used to differentiate the SIGN copy from
the background) or any figure which is written, printed, projected, painted,
constructed or otherwise displayed upon or designed into a building, board,
plate, canopy, awning, window, vehicle or upon any object or device which by
reason of form, color, wording, symbol, design, illumination, motion or other
characteristic is designed to attract attention to the subject thereof or is
used as a means of identification, advertisement, announcement or of
illustrating products.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists
entering or leaving the intersection.
 
Requirement by Road Classification Local Collector Arterial
(measured along R.O.W.)
“A” Distance in Feet           “B” Distance in Feet
130-150 Arterial road              30    100       130-150
 
   SPOT ZONING. Rezoning of a lot or parcel of land to benefit an owner for a
use incompatible with surrounding land uses and that does not further the
Comprehensive Plan. Unreasonable SPOT ZONING results in the following:
      (1)   A small parcel of land is singled out for special and privileged
treatment;
      (2)   The singling out is not in the public interest but only for the
benefit of the land owner; and
      (3)   The action is not in accord with the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET. Any public or private way set aside for public travel 20 feet or
more in width. The word STREET shall include the words, road, highway and
thoroughfare.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location as the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards and poster panels.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A non-self-propelled vehicle intended for recreational
purposes only. Not allowed or intended to be used as a permanent or temporary
residence such as a mobile home.
   USE. The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USED. Includes arranged, designed or intended to be used.
   VARIANCE. A departure from the terms of the zoning regulation pertaining to
height or width of structures and size of yards and open spaces, where the
departure will not be contrary to the public interest, and where owing to
conditions peculiar to the property because of its size, shape or topography
and not as a result of the actions of the applicant, the literal enforcement of
the zoning regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VEHICULAR USE AREA (VUA). Any open or unenclosed area containing more than
1,800 square feet of area and/or used by five or more of any type of vehicle,
whether moving or at rest, including but not limited to, parking lots, loading
and unloading areas, mobile home parks and sales and service areas. Driveways
are considered to be vehicular use elements described in this chapter (and
intervening curbs, sidewalks, landscape strips and the like, do not eliminate
adjacency).
   WALL. One of the sides of a room or building connecting floor and ceiling or
foundation and roof.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
principal structure and the front lot line; unoccupied and unobstructed from
the ground upward. The depth of a FRONT YARD is the shortest distance measured
perpendicularly between any part of a building and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. An open extending the full width of a lot between a principal
structure and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward. The depth of a REAR YARD is the shortest distance measured
perpendicularly between any part of a building and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SECONDARY FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the lot
between a principal structure and the secondary front lot line of a corner lot,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward. The SECONDARY FRONT YARD
will be that front yard that is parallel to the side exposure of the principal
structure, or the rear exposure of the principal structure in the case of lot
with three front yards. The depth of the SECONDARY FRONT YARD is the shortest
distance measured perpendicularly between any part of a building and the
secondary front lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space between a principal structure and a side lot line,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward. The width of a SIDE YARD is
the shortest distance measured perpendicularly between any part of a building
and the nearest side lot line.
(Prior Code, § 152.008) (Ord. 2007-09, passed 9-10-2007)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.020 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The city is hereby divided into zones and districts as provided herein and
as shown on the zoning map dated January 14, 1998, which together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter. The zoning district map is composed of one or two map
sheets, each of which represents a different geographic area and/or subject
matter of the city. Each map shall be identified as part of the city’s zoning
district map, and shall be kept on file in the City Hall, and shall be known
herein as the “zoning district map.”
(Prior Code, § 152.020)
§ 152.021 MAP AMENDMENT IDENTIFICATION.
   Amendments to the zoning map shall be promptly posted on the map by the
Planning Commission. Each amendment shall be identified on the map by a
numerical designation referring to the Planning Commission record of the
amendment proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 152.021)
§ 152.022 INTERPRETATION OF ZONE AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of zones and districts
as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall be used to
interpret the exact location of the zoning district boundaries shown.
   (A)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a street, alley
or railroad, the center line of the street or railroad right-of-way is the
boundary of the district.
   (B)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a property line
or a series of property lines, the line or lines is the boundary of the
district.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a stream or
shore line of a body of water, that stream or shore line at pool, as defined on
the date this regulation is enacted, is the boundary of the district.
   (D)   Where a zoning district boundary does not clearly follow any of the
features mentioned above, its exact location on the ground shall be determined
by measurement according to the zoning district map scale.
   (E)   In any case, where the exact location of a boundary is not clear, the
Board of Adjustments shall use these rules to determine the exact location upon
application by the Planning Commission or Administrator for an original
interpretation.
   (F)   Where a designated zone is a line along a roadway, street or railroad,
the center line of the roadway, street or railroad shall also be the center
line of the zone extending approximately 150 feet in each direction.
   (G)   When a zone or district boundary line divides a lot which was in
single ownership at the time and passage of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment may permit, as a conditional use, the extension of the regulations
for either portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the zone or district
line into the remaining portion of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 152.022)
§ 152.023 APPLICATION OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations set by this chapter, within each zone shall be the
minimum or maximum limitations as appropriate to the case and shall apply
uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, except as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   No building, structure or land shall hereinafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereinafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the zone and district in which
it is located unless otherwise specifically permitted in this subchapter.
   (C)   No building or other structure shall hereinafter be erected or
altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height, bulk or floor area ratio;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces; and/or
      (5)   To have less perimeter and interior lot landscaping for vehicular
use area and noncompatible land uses than herein required, or in any other
manner contrary to the provisions of these zoning regulations.
   (D)   No part of a yard, open space, off-street parking, loading space or
other special use area required about or in connection with any building or
land for the purpose of complying with this chapter shall be included as a part
of a yard, open space, off-street parking, loading space or other special use
area similarly required for any other building or land unless otherwise
specifically permitted by this chapter.
   (E)   No yard or lot existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the adoption of this zoning regulation
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter prohibited, there shall be no more than one
principal structure and its accessory structures on any lot or parcel of land
unless a development plan is approved by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Only those uses specifically named as principal, accessory or
conditional use or substantially similar to principal, accessory or conditional
uses are permitted in each zone or district and all uses not specifically
permitted or substantially similar to permitted uses are prohibited. Prohibited
uses shall include but not be limited to those specifically named as
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 152.023) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.024 CONVERSION OF DWELLING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The conversion of any structure or structures either residential or
nonresidential so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, or another permitted use, shall be permitted only within the zone of
which a new building for similar occupancy would be permitted under this
chapter.
   (B)   The resulting occupancy shall comply with all requirements governing
new construction in the zone including, but not limited to, floor area,
dimension or yards, open space and off-street parking. The aforesaid shall
apply if the conversion involves no exterior structural changes to a principal
building but shall apply if any accessory building is converted to a principal
building.
(Prior Code, § 152.024)
§ 152.025 AGRICULTURAL LAND USE EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, land which is used
solely for agricultural use as defined herein shall be regulated in conformance
with KRS Chapter 100.
(Prior Code, § 152.025)
§ 152.026 GOVERNMENTAL USE EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other requirements of KRS Chapter 100, the commonwealth
and its political subdivisions shall be exempt from complying with any and all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.026)
§ 152.027 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   These regulations establish the following zoning districts within the city
as a means to implement the stated purpose of this chapter:
   (A)   A: Agricultural;
   (B)   R-1: Single-Family Low Density;
   (C)   R-2: Single-Family Medium Density;
   (D)   R-3: Single-Family Manufactured;
   (E)   R-4: Multi-Family;
   (F)   R-5: Manufactured Home Parks;
   (G)   B-1: Neighborhood Business;
   (H)   B-2: Central Business District;
   (I)   C-1: Highway Commercial; and
   (J)   LI: Light Industrial.
(Prior Code, § 152.027)
§ 152.028 A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. This district is derived of certain large open areas used
for agricultural purposes. The regulations of this district are designed to
retain the open character and certain other compatible uses.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Growing and harvesting of field, tree or bush crops including
flowers; the keeping of poultry, bird and egg farms, provided that pens,
buildings and other enclosures, other than open pasture, are not closer than
200 feet to any residence, residential district or commercial district; the
commercial breeding, raising, training and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep,
goats, ostriches and other livestock, provided that the site contains not less
than five contiguous acres, and the number of animals shall be limited to not
more than ten head per acre of land, and pens, buildings and other enclosures,
other than open pasture, are not closer than 200 feet to any residence,
residential district or commercial district;
      (2)   Single-family detached site-constructed dwellings;
      (3)   Corrals, stables, pens, barns and similar structures for keeping of
livestock;
      (4)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses for the propagation, cultivation
and distribution of plants produced on the premises;
      (5)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities;
      (6)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four or more
children; and
      (7)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas;
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      (3)   Private noncommercial parks and open space;
      (4)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises;
      (5)   Keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders without kitchen
facilities;
      (6)   Barns and related farm structures; and
      (7)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations:
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools and childcare centers for four and
not more than 12 children when accessory to and located in the same structure
with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play area shall be
provided which shall contain not less than 25 square feet per child and shall
be located to the rear of and directly adjacent to the principal structure or
use;
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sporting farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, tennis courts and campgrounds;
      (5)   Riding and boarding stables;
      (6)   Animal hospitals, clinics and boarding kennels; and
      (7)   Sales stands for the sale of farm or ranch products.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 217,800 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width is 250 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 50 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 50 feet; and
      (5)   Side yard setback is 35 feet on both sides of each lot.
   (F)   Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the Health
Department is greater than the minimum listed within this code, then the Health
Department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Prior Code, § 152.028)
§ 152.029 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY LOW DENSITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. This district is composed of low density single-family
detached site-constructed homes in certain areas of the city, as well as
certain open areas where similar residential development is appropriate. The
regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and protect the
essential characteristics desired in the district, to promote and encourage a
suitable environment for family life, and to promote orderly planning and
development of land uses by limiting activities other than residential in
nature from this district. Public and private parks and schools are permitted
within the district provided that they serve the residents of the district.
More than one permitted principal structure per lot or parcel of land shall not
be permitted.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached site-constructed dwellings;
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities;
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four or more
children; and
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas;
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      (3)   Agricultural uses excluding commercial stock raising;
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space;
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises;
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders without kitchen
facilities; and
      (7)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations:
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools and childcare centers for four and
not more than 12 children when accessory to and located in the same structure
with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play area shall be
provided which shall contain not less than 25 square feet per child and shall
be located to the rear of and directly adjacent to the principal structure or
use;
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first;
      (3)   Cemeteries; and
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sporting farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 12,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width is 100 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 25 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback is 15 feet on both sides of each lot; and
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (F)   R-1 maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the Health
Department is greater than the minimum listed within this chapter, then the
Health Department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Prior Code, § 152.029)
§ 152.030 R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. This district is composed of medium density single-family
detached site-constructed homes in certain areas of the city, as well as
certain open areas where similar residential development is appropriate. The
regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and protect the
essential characteristics desired in the district, to promote and encourage a
suitable environment for family life, and to promote orderly planning and
development of land uses by limiting activities other than residential in
nature from this district. Public and private parks and schools are permitted
within the district provided that they serve the residents of the district.
More than one permitted principal structure per lot or parcel of land shall not
be permitted.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached site-constructed dwellings;
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities;
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four or more
children;
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds; and
      (5)   A resident shall only house 12 non-crowing and no more than two
crowing poultry. All crowing and non-crowing poultry shall be kept in a fence
or structure of sufficient height and construction to prevent the animals from
leaving the owner’s property. The fence or structure must be in good repair.
The fence or structure shall have at least three square feet of space of
shelter per crowing or non-crowing poultry and six square feet of space of run
per crowing or non-crowing. All gates or doors to the fence or structure shall
fit properly and shall be locked or secured by latch. The structure shall be 50
feet away from any house or dwelling, except that of the poultry owner, and
free from odors and rodents. All feed shall be kept in plastic or metal
containers with a lid sufficient enough that the feed will be kept dry and free
from rodents.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas;
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      (3)   Agricultural uses excluding commercial stock raising;
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space;
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises;
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders without kitchen
facilities; and
      (7)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations:
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools and childcare centers for four and
not more than 12 children when accessory to and located in the same structure
with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play area shall be
provided which shall contain not less than 25 square feet per child and shall
be located to the rear of and directly adjacent to the principal structure or
use;
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first;
      (3)   Cemeteries; and
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sporting farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 7,500 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width is 80 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten feet on both sides of each lot; and
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (F)   Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, the minimum lot area and rear yard setbacks
shall be those required by the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 152.030) (Ord. 2021-04, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 152.031 R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY MANUFACTURED DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description.
      (1)   This district is composed of medium density single-family detached
site-constructed homes and manufactured homes in certain areas of the city, as
well as certain open areas where similar residential development is
appropriate.
      (2)   The regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and
protect the essential characteristics desired in the district, to promote and
encourage a suitable environment for family life and to promote orderly
planning and development of land uses by limiting activities other than
residential in nature from this district. Public and private parks and schools
are permitted within the district provided that they serve the residents of the
district. More than one permitted principal structure per lot or parcel of land
shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached site-constructed homes or dwelling;
      (2)   Single-family manufactured homes or dwellings;
      (3)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities;
      (4)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four or more
children; and
      (5)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas;
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      (3)   Agricultural uses excluding commercial stock raising;
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space;
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises;
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders without kitchen
facilities; and
      (7)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations:
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools and childcare centers for four and
not more than 12 children when accessory to and located in the same structure
with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play area shall be
provided which shall contain not less than 25 square feet per child and shall
be located to the rear of and directly adjacent to the principal structure or
use;
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first;
      (3)   Cemeteries; and
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sporting farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 7,500 square feet, except in Health Department approved
mobile home parks where the state’s lot standards for area and setbacks shall
apply;
      (2)   Lot width is 80 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten feet on both sides of each lot; and
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (F)   Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, the minimum lot area and rear yard setbacks
shall be those required by the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 152.031)
§ 152.032 R-4 TWO-FAMILY AND MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. This district is composed of higher density multi-family
and duplex site-constructed dwelling units in certain areas of the city, as
well as certain open areas where similar residential development is
appropriate. The regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and
protect the essential characteristics desired in the district, to promote and
encourage a suitable environment for family life and to promote orderly
planning and development of land uses by limiting activities other than
residential in nature from this district. Public and private parks and schools
are permitted within the district provided that they serve the residents of the
district.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Two-family site-constructed homes or dwellings;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (3)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities;
      (4)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four or more
children; and
      (5)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas;
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      (3)   Agricultural uses excluding commercial stock raising;
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space;
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises;
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders without kitchen
facilities; and
      (7)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations:
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools and childcare centers for four and
not more than 12 children when accessory to and located in the same structure
with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play area shall be
provided which shall contain not less than 25 square feet per child and shall
be located to the rear of and directly adjacent to the principal structure or
use;
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first;
      (3)   Cemeteries; and
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sporting farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, tennis courts and campgrounds.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 6,000 square feet with 3,500 square feet added for each
additional dwelling unit over two units (three units require 9,500 square);
      (2)   Lot width is 80 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten feet on both sides of each lot; and
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (F)   Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, the minimum lot area and rear yard setbacks
shall be those required by the Health Department.
(Prior Code § 152.032)
§ 152.033 R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. This district is composed of high density manufactured
home parks in certain areas of the city, as well as certain open areas where
similar residential development is appropriate. The regulations for this
district are designed to promote and encourage a suitable environment for
affordable housing areas and family life, and to promote orderly planning and
development of land uses by limiting activities other than residential in
nature from this district.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses. Manufactured home parks that meet state
regulations regarding mobile home parks and have a permit from the state’s and
county’s Health Department to operate as such.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas;
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
      (3)   Agricultural uses excluding commercial stock raising;
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space;
      (5)   Keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders without kitchen
facilities; and
      (6)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations:
      (1)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first; and
      (2)   Cemeteries.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Required lot areas, setbacks as required by the state’s mobile home
park regulations; and
      (2)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
(Prior Code, § 152.033)
§ 152.034 B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. The purpose of the Neighborhood Business District is to
allow for the continuance of and encourage the establishment of relatively
small areas for businesses that minimally impact surrounding residences, and
which tend to meet the daily needs of the residents in an immediate
neighborhood or as characterized by low volume daily customers. The districts
shall be strategically located with access to a collector street. The primary
intent of this District is to ensure compatibility with adjoining residential
neighborhoods, while satisfying some of their daily commercial and service
business needs.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Beauty shops and barber shops;
      (2)   Gift shops and antique shops;
      (3)   Establishments for the retail sale of food products, such as
supermarkets, no greater than 3,000 square feet in building area and provided
that no drive through facilities are provided;
      (4)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities;
      (5)   Community centers;
      (6)   Nursing and rest homes;
      (7)   Restaurants, no greater than 3,000 square feet in building area and
no drive-in or drive-through service facilities are provided;
      (8)   Bed and breakfast establishments; and
      (9)   Banks, credit agencies, security and commodity brokers and
exchanges, savings and loan companies and holding and investment companies.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Parking areas; and
      (2)   One dwelling unit for owners, operators or employees of a permitted
use provided that the dwelling unit shall be a part of the building and shall
have a separate entrance.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations and the Comprehensive Plan: None.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 7,500 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width is 80 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten feet on both sides of each lot; and
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (F)   Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 40%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems of on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, the minimum lot area and rear yard setbacks
shall be those required by the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 152.034)
§ 152.035 B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. The purpose of the Central Business District is to
protect and encourage limited renewal while maintaining the existing character
and overall appearance of the historical core residential and business area of
the community. A variety of business, institutional, public, quasi-public,
cultural, residential and other related uses are encouraged in an effort to
provide the mix of activities necessary to maintain the historical and cultural
significance inherent in the area. Compatibility with the historic structures
and uses is the primary goal of the district, while enhancing the overall
appearance and function as a historic as well as actively used district.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Beauty shops and barber shops;
      (2)   Gift shops and antique shops;
      (3)   Establishments for the retail sale of food products, such as
supermarkets, no greater than 3,000 square feet in building area;
      (4)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities;
      (5)   Community centers;
      (6)   Nursing and rest homes;
      (7)   Banks, credit agencies, security and commodity brokers and
exchanges, savings and loan companies and holding and investment companies,
provided, however, building is no greater than 3,000 square feet;
      (8)   Offices for business, professional, governmental, civic, social,
fraternal, political, religious and charitable organizations;
      (9)   Libraries, museums, art galleries and reading rooms;
      (10)   Medical and dental offices, clinics and laboratories;
      (11)   Studios for working and teaching the fine arts;
      (12)   Churches and Sunday schools;
      (13)   Computer and data processing centers;
      (14)   Ticket and travel agencies;
      (15)   Business colleges or technical schools;
      (16)   Restaurants with no drive-in or drive-through facilities provided;
      (17)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (18)   Indoor amusements such as billiard or pool halls, skating rinks or
bowling alleys;
      (19)   Indoor theaters; and
      (20)   Establishments for the retail sale of merchandise.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Parking areas; and
      (2)   One dwelling unit for owners, operators or employees of a permitted
use provided that the dwelling unit shall be a part of the building and shall
have a separate entrance.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations and the Comprehensive Plan: None.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 7,500 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width is 80 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten feet on both sides of each lot; and
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (F)   Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 40%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Wherever private sewage systems or on-site
septic treatment facilities are used, the minimum lot area and the rear yard
setbacks shall be those required by the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 152.035)
§ 152.036 C-1 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description. The purpose of the Highway Commercial District is to
encourage the establishment of areas for highway business uses only. This
district is specifically designed to service the motoring public. Highway
Commercial Districts are generally associated with areas along major highways.
   (B)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   The primary uses in the B-2 District;
      (2)   Establishment and lot for the display, rental, sales, service and
repair of farm equipment, contractor equipment, automobiles, motorcycles,
trucks, boats, travel trailers, mobile homes or supplies for such items;
      (3)   Restaurants;
      (4)   Motels or hotels;
      (5)   Wholesale establishments;
      (6)   Garden centers;
      (7)   Kennel, animal hospitals or clinics, including offices of
veterinarians, provided that the structure or use not including accessory
parking area shall be at least 200 feet from any residential zoning district;
      (8)   Funeral homes;
      (9)   Hospitals;
      (10)   Automobile service stations; and
      (11)   Car washes, provided surface water from the establishments shall
not drain onto adjacent property and that adequate on-site storage lanes and
parking facilities shall be provided so that no public way shall be used for
such purposes.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Parking areas; and
      (2)   One dwelling unit for owners, operators or employees of a permitted
use provided that the dwelling unit shall be a part of the building and shall
have a separate entrance.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations and the Comprehensive Plan: Recycling centers.
   (E)   Yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 7,500 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width is 80 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten feet on both sides of each lot; and
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (F)   Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 40%; and
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 30 feet.
   (G)   Private sewage systems. Wherever private sewage systems or on-site
septic treatment facilities are used, the minimum lot area and the rear yard
setbacks shall be those required by the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 152.036)
§ 152.037 L-I LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to encourage the development
of manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are clean, quite
and free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor, dust,
smoke or glare, which operate primarily within enclosed structures and generate
little industrial traffic.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Wholesale, storage, warehouse, animal hospital,
bakery, bottling works, building material yard, optical goods, printing,
publication or engraving, cabinet making, clothing manufacturers, dying and dry
cleaning, ice plants and laundry. These permitted uses to include
manufacturing, treatment, altering, finishing or assembling incidental thereto.
   (C)   Accessory uses permitted.
      (1)   Signs identifying the industrial activity on the same premises in
accordance with §
152.061 of this code; and
      (2)   Garages and other buildings and uses accessory to the principal
use.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Junk yards and other light industrial uses not
listed above which can be classified as light industry according to §
152.007 of this code shall be considered conditional uses and will require the
approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment. Heavy industrial uses as defined in
§
152.007 of this code are not permitted in the city limits as the city intends
to preserve the existing character and quietness in the city, as illustrated by
the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 152.037)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.050 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   In all cases where land is divided for the purpose of eventual development,
of lots of any kind, the provisions of the subdivision regulations of the city
or county shall apply in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.050)
§ 152.051 CONDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS.
   Conditional uses may be permitted in districts as designated under each
zoning district, but only when specifically approved by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment. All conditional uses must meet the following: such a use must be
essential to or would promote the public health, safety or welfare in one or
more zones, but which would impair the integrity and character of the zone in
which it is located, or in adjoining zones, unless restrictions on location,
size, extent and character of performance are imposed in addition to those
imposed in the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 152.051) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter may be continued, except as otherwise provided herein,
although the use does not conform to the provisions of such regulations.
   (B)   Nonconforming structures remain subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Extension. A nonconforming structure, or structure containing a
nonconforming use, shall not be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered.
      (2)   Alteration. No structure containing a nonconforming use shall
hereafter be altered in a manner that would tend to prolong the nonconforming
use except for ordinary repairs, except in accordance with §§
152.095 through
152.107 of this code.
      (3)   Discontinuance. No nonconforming use may be reestablished after it
has been discontinued for a period of 12 months. Vacating of premises or
building, or nonoperative status shall be evidence of a discontinued use.
      (4)   Prior approval. Proposed structures for which permits have been
issued prior to their designation as nonconforming by the adoption or amendment
of this chapter maybe completed and used as originally intended provided they
are completed and in use one year after the date on which the permit was
issued.
      (5)   Use change. No nonconforming use may be changed to any other
nonconforming use unless the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall find, that the
proposed nonconforming use is less detrimental to the district than the
existing nonconforming use of the property. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may
specify the appropriate conditions and safeguards as may be required in
connection with the change and shall require the owner to meet all other
specifications of this regulation. This section does not allow for the
expansion of a nonconforming structure containing old or new nonconforming
uses.
      (6)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles in place and being used
as a dwelling. As of January 1, 2007, these vehicles will be allowed to remain
in their current state, but are required to obtain a conditional use permit on
an annual basis. All conditional use permits will expire on June 30 of each
year. The Travel trailer/recreational vehicle must be licensed, roadworthy and
tow able, and must be moved a minimum of one mile every 180 days. The existing
vehicle may not be replaced, extended, or modified without application for a
new permit.
(Prior Code, § 152.052) (Ord. 2007-06, passed 7-9-2007) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053 REQUIRED STREET FRONTAGE.
   All lots shall front on an improved, publicly maintained street or road for
the minimum distance except that lots which front on turn-arounds of permanent
dead-end streets or on curves, the required frontage shall be measured at the
building setback line.
(Prior Code, § 152.053) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.054 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   No building shall exceed two stories or 30 feet in height, unless each side
yard is increased over the required minimum by five feet for every five feet,
or fraction thereof, of additional height over 30 feet. In no case shall the
height exceed 50 feet. This section shall not apply to the Light Industrial
District where the building height shall not exceed 50 feet. There shall be no
height restrictions in Heavy Industrial and Agricultural Districts.
(Prior Code, § 152.054) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.055 REAR DWELLINGS, REDUCTION IN LOT AREA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Rear dwelling prohibited. No building in the rear of a main building
on the same lot may be erected for residential purposes.
   (B)   Reductions in lot area prohibited. No lot, even though it may consist
of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in area so that yards,
lot area per family, lot width, building area or other requirements of this
regulation are not maintained.
(Prior Code, § 152.055) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.056 APPROVED SEWERAGE DISPOSAL FOR BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct any building for human occupancy and use
without sewerage disposal facilities approved by the county’s Health
Department. Wherever sewer mains are accessible (within 500 feet), buildings
shall be connected to the mains. In every other case, individual sewerage
disposal must meet the requirements set by the state’s Plumbing Inspector. The
county’s Health Officer’s certificate approving proposed and completed sewerage
facilities must accompany applications for zoning permits and certificates of
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 152.056) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057 REGULATION OF PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   Unless a plat has been approved for a multi-building project, only one
principal building and authorized accessory structures are permitted, except as
stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.057) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.058 SINKHOLES.
   Sinkholes and other similar depressions and the area within 50 feet
horizontally from the rim of the sinkhole or that area subject to periodic
flooding, whichever is greater, shall be preserved in its natural state for the
purpose of providing drainage of the surrounding area. No building, street or
any other improvement shall be made within the given area around a sinkhole.
The Planning Commission shall have the power to increase the area around the
sinkhole if drainage conditions warrant such action. The sinkhole may be
punched or otherwise altered to improve drainage.
(Prior Code, § 152.058) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.059 FLOODPLAINS.
   The Administrative Official shall administer the city’s flood damage
prevention ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 152.059)
§ 152.060 LOTS AND YARDS.
   (A)   Obstruction to vision at street intersections on corner lots. Corner
lots in all districts shall be free from all obstructions to traffic visibility
according to the sight triangle standards in §
152.007 of this code. The requirements of §
152.007 of this code shall not be deemed to prohibit any necessary retaining
wall.
   (B)   Building setback lines. A building setback line shall be established
to provide a front yard for all buildings and structures at the minimum
distance.
   (C)   Setback requirements for corner lots. In residential districts, if the
required building setback is greater than 25 feet from the street right-of-way,
a corner building either along its front or side, shall not be closer than the
distance established for the building setback line in that district.
   (D)   Regulations for double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall, on
both adjacent streets, meet the front yard requirements of the district in
which they are located.
   (E)   Application of yards to one building only. No part of a yard required
for any building may be included as fulfilling the yard requirements for an
adjacent building.
   (F)   Use of yards for accessory buildings. No accessory buildings are
permitted in front yards. They are permitted only in rear or side yards
according to the dimension and area regulations.
(Prior Code, § 152.060) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.061 SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   Outdoor advertising shall be classified as a business use and shall be
permitted in all Agriculture, Business and Industrial Districts.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Industrial, General Business and Agricultural Districts. No outdoor
advertising sign or display shall be erected, placed, painted or repainted or
hung nearer to any street right-of-way line upon which the display faces the
building lines provided in zones where the use is permitted except that one
sign advertising the primary nature of the business or industry conducted on
the premises may be placed not closer than six feet to the street right-of-way
line, but in no case be permitted to obstruct the view of traffic.
      (2)   Neighborhood Business District. Only signs attached to the
structure shall be permitted in Neighborhood Business Districts. Projection
signs should not project more than three feet from the building, measured from
the building line or point at which the sign is attached, whichever is greater
from the street right-of-way or lot line.
   (B)   Size and placement.
      (1)   Industrial, General Business and Agricultural Districts. A single
sign, billboard or other advertising device containing no more than 200 square
feet (including border) shall be permitted in Industrial, General Business or
Agriculture Zones. No more than four signs may be erected together containing
no more than 200 square feet total. The signs shall be erected within 50 feet
of a common point. Any other sign, or signs, shall be at least 1,000 feet from
this point. No sign, billboard or other device shall be built at a height
greater than the maximum building height permitted in the district in which it
is located.
      (2)   Neighborhood Business. All outdoor advertising signs shall have no
more than 50 square feet or have a height greater than three feet.
   (C)   Lighting and noise. Signs or other outdoor advertising which involve
lighting or motion resembling traffic or directional signals, warnings such as
“stop” or “danger” or any other similar signs which are normally associated
with highway safety regulations, are prohibited. Additionally, no sign or
outdoor commercial advertising device constituting a nuisance because of light,
glare, focus, animation or flashing or any illuminated signs of such intensity
or illumination as to unduly disturb the use of residential property, shall
have devices which eliminate noise or sound. Excessive glare and other nuisance
producing signs shall be prohibited from affecting residential areas.
   (D)   Maintenance and compliance. Outdoor advertising structure shall be
adequately maintained. The maintenance shall include proper alignment of
structures, continued readability of the structure and preservation of the
structure with paint and other preservative. If an outdoor advertising
structure is not maintained, nor complies with the provisions of this chapter,
written notice of any disrepair shall be issued by the Planning Commission to
the owner of the structure. If the disrepair or violation is not corrected
within 60 days of issuance of the notice, the structure shall be removed at the
owner’s expense.
   (E)   Nonconforming signs and advertising structures. Any advertising sign,
billboard, commercial advertising structure or statuary which is existing and
maintained at the time this chapter becomes effective, which does not conform
with the provisions hereof, shall not be structurally altered except to comply
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.061) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.062 VEHICLES; PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking requirements for change in the principal use. When the
principal use is changed to a use for which additional parking space is
required under the provisions of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to begin or
maintain such altered use until such time as the required off-street parking is
required.
   (B)   Minimum design and maintenance requirements for parking areas. Every
parcel of land hereafter used as a parking area shall be designed and
maintained in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Off-street parking areas shall equal or exceed the number of spaces
required and shall be of usable shape and surface and have convenient ingress
and egress. Aisles and access drives shall be designed so as to provide
adequate vehicular maneuvering wholly upon the property being served.
      (2)   All driveways shall be a minimum of five feet from a property line
except single-family residential units or as otherwise provided for in this
chapter.
      (3)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
arranged so as to reflect away from any adjoining Residential Zone or uses or
private rights-of-way.
      (4)   Any off-street parking area having more than 1,800 square feet of
area and/or used by eight or more vehicles shall be landscaped and screened as
required by this chapter.
      (5)   All parking areas shall be paved and drained so as to dispose of
all surface water within the parking area without carrying the water
accumulation over a public sidewalk. Piping the water to a suitable outfall may
be required.
      (6)   Where parking areas are provided for eight or more vehicles or
contain more than 1,800 square feet of area or are enlarged or expanded to
provide eight or more vehicles or contain more than 1,800 square feet of area,
they shall be paved with an asphalt, concrete, brick or other properly bound
surface, so as to be durable and dustless. Each parking space shall be
physically delineated on the surface of the parking area. All driveway aprons
shall be paved.
      (7)   All parking spaces located along the perimeter of a parking area or
adjacent to any structure on the lot shall be provided with concrete or other
wheel protection for any landscape materials and sidewalk.
      (8)   Fire lanes shall be at least 20 feet in width with the road edge
closest to the building at least ten feet from the building. The designation,
use and maintenance of fire lanes on private property shall be accomplished as
specified by the Fire Department.
   (C)   Off-street parking space requirements for automobiles.
      (1)   Existing parking space. Existing off-street parking space provided
for any building or use at the time of the enactment of this chapter shall not
thereafter be reduced unless it exceeds the requirements of this chapter. Any
existing building or use not providing off-street parking space in conformance
with this chapter shall at the time of any structural alteration of the
building or expansion of the use, provide the required parking.
      (2)   Required off-street parking space. Off-street parking space shall
be provided on the premises so that there will be no generation of automobile
parking on any street. For purposes of computing the number of spaces available
in a given area, a standard vehicle parking space shall be computed as an area
measuring ten by 20 feet. Additional area will be required in order to provide
vehicle maneuvering space, access and egress.
      (3)   Off-street parking standards. The following standards comprise the
minimum off-street parking requirements for the several common types of
buildings and uses listed. Where more than one use occupies a building, the
total of the combined standards shall be required:
         (a)   Single-family residences. Two spaces per dwelling unit;
         (b)   Apartment house. One and one-half spaces per unit;
         (c)   Boarding houses and rooming houses. One space for the first two
rooms and one space for each additional two rooms;
         (d)   Hotels and motels. One space per unit plus one space for each
three employees;
         (e)   Auditorium, theater or stadium or other similar use. One parking
space for each five seats available at maximum capacity;
         (f)   Church. One space for each three seats available at maximum
capacity;
         (g)   Restaurant. One space for each three seats available at maximum
capacity. Employee parking shall be provided at the ratio of one space for each
three employees;
         (h)   Commercial or business building. Four spaces for the first 1,000
square feet of floor space used and usable in the sale of merchandise, and one
additional space for each additional 250 square feet of floor space; and
         (i)   Manufacturing and warehousing. One parking space for each two
employees at maximum employee on a single shift plus one car space for each
truck operated by the business. The Planning Commission may require additional
space if it deems necessary.
      (4)   Off-street loading and unloading regulations for trucks.
         (a)   All buildings and uses which generate regular trucking traffic
shall be provided with sufficient off-street loading and unloading space on the
premises so that they will generate no loading or unloading activity on their
required parking spaces or on any street.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall interpret the amount of loading
and unloading space required for any building or use whenever it is unable to
apply this standard literally.
   (D)   Additional parking, loading and unloading regulations.
      (1)   Arrangement of off-street parking space. Off-street parking space
required for any building or use may be located within 200 feet from the
premises it serves, but detached therefrom, or may be consolidated into a large
parking area serving other buildings and uses. Either arrangement must be
approved by the Planning Commission. The parking space, if allowed, shall be
deemed required space associated with the permitted use and shall not hereafter
be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
      (2)   Proof of availability. The Planning Commission may require a plat,
deed or any other proof necessary to show that the required parking space, if
located off the premises it serves, is controlled by and available to the
applicant prior to the granting of a zoning/building permit.
(Prior Code, § 152.062) Penalty, see §
152.999
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.075 MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
   (A)   Permitted. Single-family manufactured housing occupied by a resident
not solely engaged in agricultural activity shall be allowed in the A-1, A-
2 and R-3 districts. Mobile home parks shall be authorized in the R-3 district.
   (B)   Foundation. All manufactured housing must be placed either on concrete
foundations or mortared concrete blocks. The bottom of the manufactured housing
unit must not be more than four feet above the ground at any point. A solid
form of permanent material must be built between the ground and the bottom
outside edge of the manufactured housing unit.
   (C)   Anchorage and tie-down. Every space for manufactured units shall be
provided with devices for anchoring the unit to prevent overturning or uplift.
The owner shall be responsible for causing the unit to be anchored. Where
concrete platforms are provided for the parking of mobile units, anchorage
shall be provided with eyelets embedded in the concrete with adequate anchor
plates or hooks or other suitable means. The anchorage shall be adequate to
withstand wind forces and uplift as required by the state’s Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 152.075) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.076 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks. No mobile home park shall be permitted on an area
of less than two acres in size. The developer may be permitted to develop the
park, in stages as long as he or she complies with the overall approved plan
for the entire tract. The number of manufactured housing units permitted in the
park shall not exceed a density of ten manufactured housing units per net acre.
A net acre being the land to be subdivided into lots after streets and other
required improvements have been installed.
   (B)   Lot requirements. Individual lots within a mobile home park shall not
be less than 4,000 square feet in area and on a Health Department approved
sewage disposal system and in no instance shall more than one manufactured
housing unit be permitted on a single lot. The minimum lot width shall be 50
feet.
   (C)   Setback. No manufactured housing unit or structure shall be located
closer to any public street than the minimum front yard setback for permanent
residential structures in the Residential Zone in which the park is located. No
manufactured housing unit shall be located closer than 25 feet to any building
or street within the park or to any property line of the park.
   (D)   Frontage. All mobile home parks shall front on a public street or road
for at least 100 feet.
   (E)   Spacing. No manufactured housing unit shall be located within 25 feet
of another manufactured housing unit except that a minimum end-to-end clearance
of not less than 15 feet shall be permitted, and in instances where the sides
opposite the entrance of two manufactured housing units may be reduced to not
less than 20 feet.
   (F)   Streets. All manufactured housing spaces shall abut upon a street
within the trailer park and shall have a right-of-way of not less than 25 feet
and a pavement of not less than 20 feet. Each park shall have at least one
street which gives access to a public street. The access streets in either a
single mobile home park or parks, shall not be less than 100 feet apart nor be
less than 125 feet from an intersection of two or more public streets. All
streets within the park shall be paved, hard-surfaced, well-drained and well-
lighted. No street right-of-way within the mobile home park shall be within
five feet of the property line. The owner of the mobile home park shall
maintain the streets within the mobile park.
   (G)   Parking. One paved automobile parking area shall be provided on every
manufactured housing lot, plus one-half parking space for each mobile home lot.
This additional parking may be in a central location, but in no case more than
300 feet from the manufactured housing unit for which it is provided.
   (H)   Utilities. All lots within the mobile home park shall be provided with
water, sewer and electrical facilities meeting the standards specified by
county and state regulations, and each manufactured housing unit shall be
properly connected with the utilities.
   (I)   Accessory structures. No accessory structure including patios and pads
shall be located within five feet from any manufactured housing lot line. The
maximum floor area shall be 100 square feet and the maximum height shall be no
greater than ten feet.
   (J)   Foundation. All manufactured housing must be placed either on concrete
foundations or mortared concrete blocks.
   (K)   Anchorage and tie-down. Every space for manufactured units shall be
provided with devices for anchoring the unit to prevent overturning or uplift.
The owner shall be responsible for causing the unit to be anchored. Where
concrete platforms are provided for the parking of mobile units, anchorage
shall be provided with eyelets embedded in the concrete with adequate anchor
plates or hooks or other suitable means. The anchorage shall be adequate to
withstand wind forces and uplift as required by the state’s Building Code.
   (L)   Connecting structures. Only porches, stairs and other open structures
may be attached to a manufactured housing unit. No structure for human
occupancy shall be built to the mobile home.
   (M)   Procedure. In applying for a zoning permit for a mobile home park, the
applicant shall submit his or her plan to the Planning Commission for its
approval in accordance with the preliminary plat approval of the county’s
subdivision regulations. The plan shall show the following information:
      (1)   Plat of the entire park property;
      (2)   Subdivision of the property, including all streets, dimensions of
streets and lots, access to public streets and public areas such as visitors
parking spaces, recreational areas, swimming pools and the like, if the areas
are proposed;
      (3)   Location and layout of all utilities, including pipe sizes, meter
locations, valves, fire hydrants, sanitary sewer connections, manholes and
connections to the existing public utilities;
      (4)   Typical layout of one mobile home lot, showing manufactured housing
unit location automobile parking spaces, patio garbage can receptors and the
like; and
      (5)   Location of planting to be provided for landscaping purposes, or as
required for protective buffer.
   (N)   Issuance of zoning permit. The Planning Commission may attach
reasonable special conditions to its approval of a mobile home park and may
direct the Administrative Officer to issue a zoning permit when the applicant
presents a valid construction permit from the state’s Department of Health, as
required by KRS Chapter 219. The Administrative Officer shall not issue the
zoning permit until he or she has received written authorization from the
Planning Commission, or Board of Adjustment, and until the valid construction
permit is presented.
   (O)   Issuance of certificate of compliance. The Administrative Officer
shall issue a certificate of compliance only after he or she has determined
that the mobile home park has been prepared according to all applicable state
regulations and special conditions and only after the applicant presents a
valid permit to operate from the state’s Department of Health as required by
state statutes.
   (P)   Enforcement. The Administrative Officer shall ensure that all mobile
home parks maintain valid permits to operate and maintain conformance with all
applicable regulations of this chapter and all special conditions.
   (Q)   Existence. All existing manufactured housing units within the planning
unit which complied with all existing regulations at the time of passage of
this chapter shall be allowed to remain in their present location. No future
manufactured housing unit in a new site shall be permanently located outside of
an approved park, except as provided in Agricultural and Residential Districts.
   (R)   Conflict of regulations. All parts of any existing regulation in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 152.076) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.077 APARTMENT HOUSES.
   (A)   Permitted. Apartment houses shall be permitted in the R-4 Residential
Districts.
   (B)   Area and density requirements. An apartment house shall have a minimum
lot area of 13,500 square feet for the first three units. For each additional
unit, there shall be an additional 3,000 square feet. The minimum required lot
width at the building line shall be 100 feet. If municipal sewers are not
available for an apartment complex, the required Health Department dimensions
shall apply.
   (C)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: ten feet;
      (3)   Side yard: 15 feet; and
      (4)   Corner lots shall meet the applicable requirements of §
152.037(C) of this code.
   (D)   Lot coverage. The combined area occupied by all principal and
accessory buildings shall not exceed 50% of the total lot area.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided on-site only.
All parking areas shall be hard-surface concrete or asphalt and shall provide
one and one-half spaces per dwelling unit.
   (F)   Procedure.
      (1)   An applicant, before applying for a zoning permit or beginning
construction, shall prepare a plan or sketch showing lot dimensions and
bearings of the parcel intended to be developed, the location, the intended
general layout and design and improvements to be installed on the land. The
proposal may be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Before approving the intended development plan, the Planning
Commission may make conditional requirements pertaining to landscaping,
screening, road requirements, open space or any other similar requirements.
These requirements shall be made part of the plan before approval is given to
the plat. Once approval is received, a zoning permit may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 152.077) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.078 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   Junk yards are not permitted within the city limits. The junk yards
that may exist do so as nonconforming uses only.
   (B)   All junk yards shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   All junk yards must be completely screened from the surrounding
property with the screening being not less than eight feet in height. The
Planning Commission shall be required to approve the type of screening used.
      (2)   Any junk yard located closer than 2,000 feet from a center line of
any public road must comply with KRS Chapter 177. The Administrative Officer
shall ensure that all junk yards comply with county and state regulations.
      (3)   No junk shall be left outside of the screened area for more than 24
hours.
      (4)   No junk yard shall be within 2,000 feet of any Residential Zone.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to determine if a
parcel is being used for a junk yard or not. An occupational license, sign,
words or written agreements shall not be evidence alone as to whether a parcel
of a land is being used for a junk yard.
      (6)   As junk yards can be a threat to the public health and safety
through groundwater contamination, insect breeding grounds, eyesores and the
like, any junk yard must meet federal and state standards in order to continue
to operate. Those found to be in violation shall be notified and be instructed
to be brought into compliance.
(Prior Code, § 152.078) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.079 FENCES, WALLS AND OBSTRUCTION TO VIEW REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fence permit. Any property owned desiring to erect a fence on any
property within the boundaries of the city is required to obtain a fence permit
in accordance with the provisions and procedures set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Fence permit application. Application for the fence permit shall be
made to the City Clerk/Treasurer on a form furnished by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, and shall be accompanied by a permit fee set forth in the fee
schedule. Each application for a fence permit shall also be accompanied by a
scaled drawing showing the intended fence location in relation to all physical
structures, streets, sidewalks and property lines. The application will further
describe the type of material to be used in the fence as well as the height of
the intended fence.
   (C)   Fence restrictions. The following fence restrictions will apply to all
residential properties within the city boundaries.
      (1)   Front yard fences. A front yard is that property that lies between
the front of the house/improvement and the property line. Front yard fences
must adhere to the following criteria. Both street frontages shall be deemed
the front lot in the case of a corner lot:
         (a)   Must be a picket fence, either wood or vinyl, or wrought iron
and in compliance with division (D)(2) below and must be a minimum of 40% open;
         (b)   Can be no taller than 48 inches in height;
         (c)   Must be no closer than one foot to the property line or public
sidewalk; and
         (d)   If the fence completely encloses the yard with gates closed, the
property’s United States Postal mailbox must be located at the fence line.
      (2)   Side and rear yard fences.
         (a)   May be made of any material in division (D)(1) below;
         (b)   May be on the property line when dividing individual lots;
         (c)   Must be one foot from any property line adjoining a street,
alley or public sidewalk;
         (d)   Chain link fences must not exceed 48 inches in height; and
         (e)   Iron, brick, stone and solid wood fences must not exceed 72
inches.
      (3)   Prohibited. No fence will be erected on a dedicated right-of-way or
easement.
   (D)   Classification of fences and walls.
      (1)   No fence will be erected which is made of any material other than:
         (a)   Wire must be either chain link or double picket wire;
         (b)   Wood must be picket or purchased wood fencing. No other
combination of new and/or used boards of different width, size and thickness
except repeating patterns or two widths of new boards will be allowed;
         (c)   Brick or stone will be secured by mortar between each brick or
stone;
         (d)   Hedges;
         (e)   Ornamental iron: 80% open;
         (f)   Plastic designed to appear as painted wood;
         (g)   Solid fences: Wood or other materials less than 50% open; or
         (h)   Vinyl or composite material intended to be used as fencing.
      (2)   All posts will be manufactured post made for fencing and shall be
no more than one inch taller than the fence attached thereto. No retainer wall
shall be higher than six inches above the ground it is to retain.
   (E)   Vision clearance at corners and railroad crossing. Except as herein
provided, no hedge or other structure, or obstruction above a height of 36
inches as measured above the curb level shall be erected, placed, maintained or
continued in any zone with that triangular portion of a corner lot formed by
measuring 50 feet from the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two
streets or the right-of-way line of a street intersection with a railroad
right-of-way line and joining these points with a straight line. No type of
tree, planting or other obstruction shall be planted, placed, maintained or
continued in such a manner which would obstruct vision clearance at corners and
railroad crossings.
   (F)   Commercial and Industrial Zones. Fences and/or wall within all
Commercial and Industrial Zones, including those permitted with all
conditionally permitted used in this zone, shall conform to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Except as provided for in division (E) above, fences of all classes
in division (D) above may be erected in side and rear yards of Commercial
Zones, up to a maximum height of 96 inches. In the case of corner lots, as
governed by division (E) above, fences of class A and E only may be erected up
to a maximum height of 96 inches. In minimum fronts yards, fences of classes A,
B, C, D, E and F may be erected up to a maximum height of 48 inches, except as
governed by division (E) above.
      (2)   Where a lot in a Residential or Commercial Zone abuts a publicly
dedicated alley, a wall or fence shall be permitted to be located on the
property line in the yard that abuts the alley, provided any gate swings in
toward the property. Except as noted in division (E) above, fences of all
classes may be erected up to a maximum height of 96 inches in all Industrial
Zones in side and rear yards and not more than 48 inches in height in the
minimum front yard depth. Classes A and E fences may be erected up to a maximum
height or 96 inches in the minimum front yard depth in all Industrial Zones.
      (3)   Walls and fences shall be permitted in any yard in an Industrial
Zone. There shall be no height restriction placed on any wall or fence erected
or maintained in Industrial Zones, and any barbed wire construction shall be
not less than six feet above the ground.
   (G)   Agricultural Zones. Fences and/or walls within the Agricultural Zones
shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   Except as provided for in division (E) above, class A and E fences
may be erected in front yards up to a maximum height of 96 inches;
      (2)   Side and rear yard class A, B, C, D, E, F and G fences and/or walls
may be erected up to a maximum height of 96 inches;
      (3)   Earthen or concrete walls shall be permitted but shall conform to
requirement of the Corps of Engineers and/or City or County Engineer whichever
is applicable; and
      (4)   Barbed wire may be used.
   (H)   Measurement of all fence and/or wall heights and/or locations.
      (1)   All fences and/or wall heights shall be measured along the fence or
wall locations.
      (2)   All locations for distance measurements shall be measured from lot
lines.
      (3)   All fence heights measured are determined to be from ground level
to the highest point of the fence.
   (I)   Height of any sharp pointed fences. In all zones, sharp pointed
fences, where permitted, the pointed or sharp portion of the fence must be a
minimum of 60 inches above ground level except in Agricultural Zones.
   (J)   Height of fences atop retaining walls. Combination fence and retaining
wall may be erected. The retaining wall portion may be erected up to no higher
than six inches above the level of the higher finished grade. The fence portion
must be of the class and height permitted within this chapter for the
applicable zone. This measurement shall be made at and along the location of
the fence and retaining wall.
   (K)   Electrified fences. No fence carrying an electrical charge shall be
permitted in any zone except when such fence is used in conjunction with an
agricultural use.
   (L)   Structural elements of fences. Fences shall be constructed so that all
structural members shall be located on the side which faces the owner’s
property, but not applicable to Agricultural Zones.
   (M)   Existing fences. All existing fences erected prior to the passage of
the ordinance from which this section was derived which may be in violation of
any part of this chapter’s provisions may remain as a non-conforming fence if
in good condition. When destroyed, damaged and/or replaced, a permit as stated
in division (A) above will apply for the erection of a replacement fence, but
must comply with all other divisions of this section.
   (N)   Unsound fences. All fences and/or walls shall be kept in state of good
repair. Decrepit, rundown, decaying, ramshackle, falling down, falling to
pieces, falling apart and unsound fences will be cited.
   (O)   Violations.
      (1)   Any property owner or other person violating any of the provision
of this section, including but not limited to the failure to obtain a permit
prior to commencing construction, shall become a lien against such property.
      (2)   Upon a determination of a violation by the Code Enforcement Board
or a court of competent jurisdiction. Unless, within ten days thereof, the
subject fence has been removed, the city may remove it.
      (3)   Removal costs to be access against the subject property, upon which
the fence has been erected or is in disrepair. These costs shall become a lien
against such property.
   (P)   Vicious dog fencing. In a case of a fence for a vicious dog situation,
see and comply with §§
90.25 through
90.27 of this code. Setback lines, corner clearances and placements of this
section would apply.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.080 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Use exceptions. Several types of structures and uses are permitted in
all districts even though they are not listed as permitted uses under the
zoning district regulations. No zoning permit or certificate of compliance is
required for the following structures and uses:
      (1)   A local public utility distributing and collecting structures, such
as pipe and transmission lines, transformers and meters;
      (2)   Public streets and all official appurtenances necessary for traffic
direction and safety. All streets and traffic control signs shall conform to
the code established and adopted by the state’s Department of Transportation;
      (3)   Private drive, private parking areas and the parking of vehicles
incidental to the principal use on the same premises;
      (4)   Real estate signs or subdivision signs advertising property for
sale or rent with less than an area of 12 square feet; and
      (5)   Signs not over two square feet in area identifying permitted home
occupations or the renting of sleeping rooms on the same premises in
Residential Zones.
   (B)   Height exceptions. Height regulations apply to buildings occupied
regularly by persons or their activities. They do not apply to structures or
portions of buildings such as radio towers, ornamental spires, water towers,
smoke stacks, silos and flag poles which are not occupied regularly by persons
except for maintenance, unless otherwise stipulated in this chapter. The Board
of Adjustment shall interpret whether or not height regulations apply upon
application by the Administrative Officer in doubtful cases. The state’s
Airport Zoning and FAA height regulations in the vicinity of an airport shall
take precedence over all other height regulations.
   (C)   Lot of record. Where the owner of a lot of official record, which at
the time of the adoption of this chapter, does not include sufficient land to
conform to the yard or other requirements of this chapter, an application may
be submitted to the Board of Zoning Adjustment for a variance from the terms of
this chapter in accordance with provisions of §
152.106 of this code. The lot may be used as a building site provided, however,
that the yard and other requirements of the district are complied with as
closely as is possible in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 152.080) Penalty, see §
152.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.095 ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission and its authorized agent or inspector shall
administer and enforce this chapter. The Commission and its authorized agent or
inspector shall have the authority to make inspection of buildings or premises
necessary to carry out their duties in administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.095)
§ 152.096 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission (hereinafter referred to as “Commission”) as
constituted at the time of this chapter shall continue in its authority. There
shall be seven members appointed by the Mayor and City Council for two-year
terms ending on December 31 of the designated year. Terms shall be staggered so
that the terms of no more than three members expire in a year. Vacancies on the
Planning Commission shall be filled within 60 days. If the vacancy is not
filled within that time, the Commission shall fill the vacancy.
   (A)   General. The Commission shall appoint or hire persons in order to
fulfill its required duties under its bylaws, this chapter and KRS Chapter 100.
   (B)   Proceedings. The Commission shall conduct regular meetings in
accordance with the rules and regulations of its bylaws.
   (C)   General powers. The Commission shall have all the powers as allowed
under the KRS and the United States and Kentucky Constitutions, which include,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   The right to employ or contract with planners or other persons as
it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties;
      (2)   To receive, hold and spend funds which it may legally receive from
any and every source in and out of the commonwealth;
      (3)   To prepare a Comprehensive Plan which shall serve, as a guide for
public and private actions in decisions to assure the development of public and
private property in the most appropriate relationships;
      (4)   To prepare the text and map of all zoning regulations which shall
divide the city into zones on an interim or permanent basis to promote public
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the city, to facilitate orderly
and harmonious development in the visual or historic character of the unit, to
regulate the density of population and intensity of land use in order to
provide adequate light and air;
      (5)   To adopt regulations for the subdivision of land within its
boundaries;
      (6)   To prepare and adopt an official zoning district map; and
      (7)   To review proposals for amendments to the zoning regulation.
(Prior Code, § 152.096)
§ 152.097 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Members. The Board of Zoning Adjustment (hereinafter referred to as
the “Board”) as constituted at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall
continue in power. There shall be five members appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council for four-year terms ending on December 31 of the
designated year. The terms shall be staggered so that the terms of no more than
two members expire in any year. Vacancies on the Board shall be filled within
60 days. If the vacancy is not filled at that time, the Commission shall fill
the vacancy.
   (B)   Proceedings. The Board shall conduct proceedings in accordance with
statutory requirements and its adopted bylaws.
   (C)   Powers. The Board shall have the following powers as allowed under the
Kentucky Constitution and KRS Chapter 100, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The right to employ or contract with planners or other persons as
it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties;
      (2)   To receive, hold and spend funds which it may legally receive from
any and every source in and out of the commonwealth;
      (3)   To issue subpoenas, and to hear and decide applications for
conditional use permits, variances and nonconforming uses; and
      (4)   To review administrative action in enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.097)
§ 152.098 CLARIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTIONS.
   The following is a recapitulation of the administrative agencies, with
jurisdiction and the extent of their jurisdictions concerning the
administration of this chapter.
   (A)   The Administrative Officer has initial authority for the literal
enforcement of this chapter. He or she has no discretionary authority to allow
any departure from the literal conformance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Adjustments has authority to hear appeals from
decisions by the Administrative Officer and to make literal interpretations of
the pertinent provisions to correct any possible misinterpretation by the
Administrative Officer. The Board also has the authority to make only those
departures from a literal conformance which is specifically delegated to it.
   (C)   The City Council has jurisdiction to determine all questions and
issues properly brought before it on appeal from the decisions of the Board of
Zoning Adjustment or the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 152.098)
§ 152.099 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to commence the demolition, excavation for or the
construction or placement of any building, including signs, accessory buildings
or fences or to commence the moving or exterior alteration of any buildings,
including accessory buildings, until the Planning Commission or its authorized
agent or inspector has issued a permit for the work.
(Prior Code, § 152.099) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.100 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE AND FEE.
   (A)   In applying to the Planning Commission and its authorized agent or
inspector for a building permit, the applicant shall submit a dimensioned
sketch or scale plan indicating lot dimensions, the shape, size, height and
location of all buildings to be erected, altered or moved and of any building
already on the lot or parcel. It shall be stated as to the existing and
intended use of all buildings and supply such other information as may be
required by the Commission and its authorized agent or inspector for
determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being observed and
upheld.
   (B)   If the proposed excavation or construction as set forth in the
application are in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances of the city then in force, the authorized agent or inspector shall
issue a permit for the excavation. If a building permit is refused, the
authorized agent or inspector shall state the refusal in writing, with the
cause, and shall immediately thereupon mail notice of the refusal to the
applicant at the address indicated on the application. The authorized agent or
inspector shall grant or deny the permit within a reasonable time from the date
the application is submitted.
   (C)   The issuance of a permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving
any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   A building permit shall become void six months from the date of
issuance unless substantial progress has been “exercised” by that date on the
project described therein.
   (E)   (1)   Application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee
as required.
      (2)   The fee shall be paid into the General Fund of the city to be used
to help defray the costs of inspections and processing of applications. The fee
schedule shall be set by the Planning Commission and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 152.100)
§ 152.101 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER CODES, STATUTES AND REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this section or other sections of this chapter shall be construed
to exempt any applicant for a permit from compliance with all local, state and
federal codes, statutes and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 152.101)
§ 152.102 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall use or permit the use of any structure or
premises or part thereof, hereafter created, erected, changed, converted,
enlarged or moved, wholly or partly, until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Planning Commission’s authorized agent or inspector.
      (2)   The certificate shall show that the structure or use, or both, or
the premises, or the affected part thereof, are in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor’s office to oversee the issuance
of the certificates by the authorized agent or inspector if it is found that
all provisions of this chapter have been met, and to withhold the certificates
unless all requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   No person shall allow occupancy of any building until the Planning
Commission has been notified by the appropriate agencies that the private
details of water, electricity and where applicable, sanitary sewer and natural
gas are completed in a fashion that the private utilities are available for use
on the property in question.
   (C)   Upon request from the owner or tenant, and upon inspection, the
Planning Commission or its authorized agent or inspector shall issue a
certificate of occupancy for any building, premises or use that is in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter or, that a legal nonconformity
exists as specified in the certificate.
(Prior Code, § 152.102)
§ 152.103 AUTHORIZED USE.
   Building permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans
and applications approved by the Planning Commission, its authorized agent or
inspector authorize only the use, arrangement or construction set forth in the
permits, plans and certificates and no other. The use, arrangement or
construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.103)
§ 152.104 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person may file a written complaint alleging violation of the provisions
of this chapter. The complaint shall state fully the cause and base thereof and
shall be filed with the Planning Commission, its authorized agent or inspector.
The Planning Commission shall properly record the complaint and investigate and
take action thereon as provided by this chapter to cite the violator into
district court.
(Prior Code, § 152.104)
§ 152.105 MAP AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General provisions. A proposal for amendments to the zoning district
map may originate only with the Planning Commission, the City Council, the
owner of the subject property or a person having written authorization from the
owner of the subject property. Regardless of the origin of the proposed
amendment, an application must be filed with the Commission requesting the
proposed amendment in such form and accompanied by information as required by
this chapter and the bylaws of the Planning Commission. At the time of filing
the amendment, a non-returnable filing fee shall be required as set forth in
this chapter; however, there shall be no filing fee for amendment requested by
the City Council, Commission or any other governmental agency. Upon filing of
an application for a map amendment by a governmental body, the Commission shall
promptly notify the owner of the subject property as required by KRS Chapter
100.
   (B)   Pre-application conference. Prior to filing an application for a
zoning map amendment, the applicant is encouraged to meet with the Planning
Commission to discuss the proposed amendment. The purpose of this conference is
to discuss, at the earliest stages, the requirements, procedures and issues
related to the proposed amendment. It is intended that this conference   will
help to alleviate possible conflicts by early recognition of existing
conditions, necessary facilities, recommendations of the adopted Comprehensive
Plan and other issues related to the proposed amendment.
   (C)   Notice. All procedures for public notice and publication, as well as
for adoption, shall be the same as for the original enactment of a zoning
regulation (KRS Chapter 100), except as provided below:
      (1)   Notice of the time, place and reason for public hearing shall be
given at least 14 days in advance of the hearing by first class mail, with
certification by the Commission Secretary or other officer of the Planning
Commission that the notice was mailed to an owner of every parcel of property
adjoining the property the classification of which is proposed to be changed;
and
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the person or persons proposing the map
amendment to furnish the Planning Commission the names and addresses of the
owners of all adjoining property, including tracts across a road or street.
Records maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator may be relied upon
to determine the identity and address of the owner.
   (D)   Posting subject property.
      (1)   When a map amendment (zone change) is proposed, an appropriate sign
stating the proposed amendment and the time, date and location of the public
hearing shall be posted on the property in question, or where more than one
piece of property is involved, the sign shall be posted in a central and
conspicuous location.
      (2)   The sign shall be posted at least 14 days before the public hearing
by the Secretary of the Planning Commission or a person appointed by the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   Public hearing. Upon receipt of a completed application, receipt of
fee, notice of map amendment on the subject property and notification of
interested parties, the Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment, per KRS Chapter 100.
   (F)   Recommendation of Planning Commission for zoning district map
amendments.
      (1)   Before making recommendations to the City Council on a proposed map
amendment, the Planning Commission shall make findings of fact, as required by
KRS Chapter 100. Findings of fact made by the Commission shall be recorded in
the minutes and records of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   After voting to recommend that an application for an amendment to
the zoning map be granted or denied, the Commission shall forward its findings
of fact and recommendation in writing to the City Council.
      (1)   Before any map amendment is granted, the Planning Commission or the
City Council must find that the map amendment is in agreement with the
community’s Comprehensive Plan, or, in the absence of such a finding, that one
or more of the following apply and the finding shall be recorded in the minutes
and records of the Planning Commission or the legislative body:
         (a)   The original zoning classification given to the property was
inappropriate or improper; and/or
         (b)   There have been major changes of an economic, physical or social
nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the community’s
Comprehensive Plan and which have substantially altered the basic character of
the area.
      (2)   (a)   The Planning Commission or legislative body must make
findings to support these conclusions, i.e., a simple restatement of the above
conditions does not constitute a proper findings of fact.
         (b)   The evidence adduced at the public hearing must support the
findings of the Planning Commission or legislative body.
(Prior Code, § 152.105)
§ 152.106 ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter shall be performed in the same manner as adoption
of the original ordinance and in conformance with KRS Chapter 100.
(Prior Code, § 152.106)
§ 152.107 ZONING DISTRICT FOR ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   (A)   After the City Council has established territory to be annexed, and
has published an ordinance of intent to annex, the Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing prior to final action upon the ordinance of annexation,
to determine the appropriate zoning district or districts for the territory.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall send its report containing the findings
of fact, summary of evidence and recommendation for zoning district
classifications to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 152.107)
§ 152.108 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses.
      (1)   (a)   A schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a collection
procedure for appeals from Board of Zoning Adjustment action, variances,
conditional use permits, zoning/building permits, certificates of compliance
and requests for zone changes, may be established by the City Council.
         (b)   No conditional use permit or variance or other change shall not
be granted nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Board of
Zoning Adjustment unless or until preliminary charges and fees have been paid
in full.
      (2)   Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment requests must be
accompanied by the County Clerk/Treasurer filing fee of $20 to file the
certificate of land use restriction.
   (B)   Rezoning request.
 
Rezoning of Any District
0-5 acres $75
6+ acres  $75 + $5 per additional acre (not to exceed $500)
 
   (C)   Building permit.
Building/Construction Permit Fees
New Buildings
Building/Construction Permit Fees
New Buildings
Above-ground pool                      $150
Accessory buildings (greater than 200  $25
sq. ft.)
Accessory buildings (less than 200 sq. $25
ft.)
                                       $400 minimum
Commercial or industrial buildings     $0.16 per sq. ft. up to 10,000 sq. ft.
                                       $0.10 sq. ft. remainder
Fences                                 $25
Garages (attached or detached)         $150
In-ground pool                         $250
Mobile homes                           $75
Modular homes                          $325
Multi-family dwelling (per unit)       $200
Other car ports, decks, sign and the   $25
like
Relocated single-family dwelling       $325
Single-family dwelling                 $425
Additions to Existing Buildings
Greater than 200 sq. ft.               $300
Less than 200 sq. ft.                  $150
 
   (D)   Conditional use permit.
 
Conditional Use Permit
Cost $100
 
   (E)   Variance request.
 
Variance Request
Cost $35
 
(Prior Code, § 152.108) (Ord. 2018-13, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 2021-06, passed
6-14-2021)
§ 152.109 VIOLATIONS.
   In case any building or structure is, or is proposed to be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, repaired, converted or maintained or any building,
structure or land is, or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter,
the Administrative Officer or any other appropriate party who would be damaged
by the violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction,
mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the work or
occupancy of the building, structure or land, in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 152.109)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violation of the conditions and safeguards
established in connection with granting of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. Any person, or groups of persons,
including members of legislative and administrative bodies of the city
violating any provision of this chapter or failing to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 dollars
but not more than $500 for each offense. Each day of violation shall constitute
a separate offense. Any person shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
$50 but not more than $500 for each lot or parcel which was the subject of sale
or transfer, or a contract for sale or transfer, where the sale or transfer, or
contract therefore, constitutes a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.999)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
Administration
   
153.20   Designation of local administrator
   
153.21   Permit procedures
   
153.22   Duties and responsibilities of local administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.35   General standards
   
153.36   Specific standards
   
153.37   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
153.38   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
153.39   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.40   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter A
   
153.41   Critical facilities
Enforcement
   
153.55   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.56   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
153.57   Establishment of development permit
   
153.58   Compliance
   
153.59   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.60   Interpretation
   
153.61   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.62   Enforcement, violation and citation notices
   
153.63   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water, generally, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in KRS Chapter 100 delegated to local government
units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council hereby
adopts the following floodplain management ordinance, as follows.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood
damage.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this section are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood-blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination
of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are
usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year flood, base
flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a structure in
which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a
firewall.
      (2)   Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or
is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO and AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B and X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. (Also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD.) BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated or qualified community
official) from available technical studies, historical information and other
available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic inundation by
floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: Housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools; nursing homes;
hospitals; police; fire and emergency response installations; vehicle and
equipment storage facilities; emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood; public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood; and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and nonresidential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   500-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOODWATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by floodwaters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities, is watertight to a specified design
elevation with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and all structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated
debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional hydraulic and/
or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FRAUD and VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
153.63 of this code, means that the variance granted must not cause FRAUD on or
VICTIMIZATION of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The HAZARD POTENTIAL CLASSIFICATION of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and nonresidential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250. Plans for dams, levees and the like to be
approved and permit issued by cabinet (Environmental and Public Protection
Cabinet).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems or similar bodies, shall
commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of any
dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except those
constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream or in the
floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such work have
been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for the
construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and specifications
have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit issued. However, the
cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments or other obstructions,
which are not of such size or type as to require approval by the cabinet in the
interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris or any other material,
raise the level of any area in any manner or place a building, barrier or
obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or stream or in
the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or obstruction will in
any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the floodway of the
stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been submitted to and
approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in division (1) of this
definition above.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this definition is intended to give the cabinet
any jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified.
         (b)   The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the
regulation of dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills or other
obstructions across or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which
structures are permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining
operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCS include the following
categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION-FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SFHA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee(s) and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices. For a
LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised);
and
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support or
basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion of
construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION.
      (1)   Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects.
      (2)   The purpose of MITIGATION is twofold:
         (a)   To protect people and structures; and
         (b)   To minimize the costs of disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall program of
corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and Digitally Referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs).) (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is
subject to the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26%
chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA. See BASE FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of PROBATION, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5 and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al through A30, AH, AO or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development. The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond
the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations, the erection of temporary forms or the installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building commences. The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Means any combination of reconstruction, alteration or improvement
to a building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, an IMPROVEMENT occurs when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities
and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and
pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION.
      (1)   Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter.
      (2)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate,
other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter
is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.20 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor and/or his or her designee to
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or
denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.21 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
153.56 of this code. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following: Plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Endorsement of the Floodplain Administrator is required before a state
floodplain construction permit can be processed.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §§
153.36 and
153.38 of this code; and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH and A
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
         (b)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required; and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
153.56 of this code, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal or state agency or other source, in order to administer §§
153.35 through
153.41 of this code. Any such information shall be submitted to the City
Council for adoption;
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the state’s Division of Water and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
153.36 of this code as shown on a completed and certified elevation
certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, in accordance with §
153.21 of this code;
         (b)   Certification required by §
153.36 of this code as shown on a completed and certified floodprooofing
certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved structures have been
floodproofed, in accordance with §
153.21 of this code;
         (c)   Certification required by §
153.36(C) of this code;
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
153.39(A) of this code;
         (e)   Certification required by §
153.36(E) of this code;
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as specified in
§
153.62 of this code.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
153.63 of this code.
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
153.56 of this code, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonable utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.35 through
153.41 of this code.
         (c)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
153.36 of this code, a floodproofing certificate.
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure
or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such request
entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee or member because
of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final termination
of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or fame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter shall meet
the requirements of a new construction as defined in §
153.05 of this code.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, shall be
undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
153.56 of this code, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and ductwork elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data and best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
§ 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain
permit. The applicant shall provide cross sections for determining floodway
boundaries(and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction site
where FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced to
mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than one-
half feet. Cross section elevations shall be taken at points which represent
significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of
the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire
base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by
the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not
occur, the cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site
elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory
floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other Zones, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above, or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and
ductwork, elevated no lower than one foot above the level of the base flood
elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
153.21 of this code;
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
and
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below an
elevation one foot above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
and
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base flood
elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction, including
elevation and anchoring.
         (a)   Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
subchapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured
homes.
      (4)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the state’s motor vehicle regulations, is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.56 of this code are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided,
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
153.35 through
153.41 of this code.
   (F)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.37 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.56 of this code, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been
provided or where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the
following provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
153.56 of this code.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.38 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.56 of this code are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of
one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following
provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
153.36 of this code.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.39 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.40 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER A.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A,”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood-resistant materials below a level one foot above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.41 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
it may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.55 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens
of the city.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.56 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the county,
dated August 16, 2007, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city, and
for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation.
   (B)   This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of
this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by the City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations.
   (C)   The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the city and are on file
and available for review by the public during regular business hours at the
City Hall at 509 Elm Street.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.57 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provision of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in the
special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
153.21 of this code for instructions and explanation. Application for a
development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.58 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable state regulations.
   (B)   Violation of the requirements (including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.59 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.60 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.61 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This subchapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, the commonwealth, the Federal Insurance Administration or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.62 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND CITATION NOTICES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.63 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section of the ordinance
are based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a
piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for
a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying
with the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to
the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish an Appeal Board consisting of the City Council.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local district court, as provided in
state statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. “Minimum necessary” means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as specified in division (A)(1)
above); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
153.05 of this code), cause fraud or victimization of the public (as defined in
§
153.05 of this code) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of Sections 6.3 A
through 6.3 E are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the city’s Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures, as defined in §
153.05 of this code, upon determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Each and every day that the violation or noncompliance continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Any person violating this chapter
may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The civil fine shall be no less
than $10, no more than $1,800. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the
city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the date of notification,
then the city may recover the fine in a civil action in a court of proper
jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to
ensure compliance with these chapters or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 154: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Annual registration required
   
154.04   Annual registration; fee
   
154.05   Limitation to the number of registrations
   
154.06   Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations
   
154.07   General requirements
   
154.08   Duties of a host
   
154.09   Enforcement
   
154.10   Levy of gross receipts tax
   
154.11   Payment of tax
   
154.12   Late payment penalty
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a set of regulations applicable
to the short-term rental of private residences. Special regulation of short-
term rentals (STR) is necessary to ensure that they will be compatible with
surrounding residential uses and will not act to harm or alter the
neighborhoods they are located within while also recognizing the diversity of
the short-term rental market.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEDROOM. A room that is fully enclosed conditioned space within a dwelling
unit or accessory structure; and meets the following criteria:
      (1)   Is located along at least one exterior wall;
      (2)   Is at least 70 square feet in size and not less than seven feet in
any horizontal dimension;
      (3)   Has a minimum ceiling height of seven feet (if the ceiling is
sloped, 50% of it can be less than seven feet, but no part of it should be less
than five feet);
      (4)   Has a built-in closet or storage area; and
      (5)   Has at least one window or door exiting directly to the outside for
ingress or egress that meets the Building Code requirements for light,
ventilation and fire escape.
   HOST. Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property, or
any person who is a lessee of residential real property pursuant to a written
agreement for the lease of such real property, who offers a dwelling unit, or
portion thereof, for short-term rental.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. An internet-based platform that generally allows an owner
or tenant to advertise the dwelling unit through a website and provides a means
for potential transient users to arrange short-term rental and payment through
the hosting platform.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A dwelling unit that is rented, leased or otherwise
assigned for a tenancy of less than 30 consecutive days duration, where no
meals are served. This term does not include hotel or motel rooms, extended
stay lodging facilities, bed and breakfast inns or boarding and lodging house
rooms.
   TRANSIENT USER. A person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement
for a period of less than 30 consecutive days duration.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall own or operate a short-term rental on
any premises within the city unless the short-term rental has been registered
annually with the city.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.04 ANNUAL REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Each annual registration for a short-term rental shall be per the
procedure prescribed by the City Council or its agent. It may be available in
hard copy or paperless, online registration upon the effective date of this
chapter. The registration form, at a minimum, shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, address, phone number and email address of the host and
of a person residing or located within the city limits of the short-term rental
that shall be responsible for addressing any maintenance or safety concerns;
      (2)   The location of the short-term rental;
      (3)   A site plan identifying at least the location of structures, on-
site parking, trash receptacles and access to the parcel; and
      (4)   A floor plan of the structure attesting to the number of bedrooms.
The floor plan does not have to be professionally drawn but must be reasonably
accurate, especially concerning the bedrooms.
   (B)   A nonrefundable fee of $50 shall accompany the registration of a
short-term rental.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.05 LIMITATION TO THE NUMBER OF REGISTRATIONS.
   In order to maintain the culture and aesthetics of the city, the number of
accepted and applicable short-term rental registrants is hereby limited to 25.
Applicants beyond 25 may appeal to the City Council for an increase in the
limitation. No registrations will be approved beyond 25 without the amendment
of this chapter by the City Council.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.06 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Each separate short-term rental shall be in compliance with any currently
applicable laws and regulations of the federal, state or local governments, as
may be amended from time to time including but not limited to, laws or
regulations on nondiscrimination, zoning, building, safety, property
maintenance, health and sanitation, fire, electrical, plumbing, mechanical and
other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.07 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Taxes. Every short-term rental will be subject to the gross receipts
tax as defined in §
154.10 of this code.
   (B)   Advertising. All advertising for any short-term rental shall include
the short-term rental permit number assigned to the host by the city, the
number of approved bedrooms, the maximum occupancy and all associated fees.
   (C)   Building type. Short-term rentals shall be allowed only in legally
established residential structures, or a portion thereof, except that no
accessory dwelling unit shall be used as a short-term rental at any time.
Short-term rentals shall not be permitted in any non-habitable structure, tent,
yurt, RV or any other provision intended for temporary occupancy.
   (D)   Occupancy.
      (1)   Occupancy shall be limited to a maximum of two adults per approved
bedroom plus two additional people.
      (2)   Allowed occupancy may be adjusted for dwellings with unusual
features by application for a conditional use permit approved by the City
Council.
   (E)   Parking.
      (1)   A minimum of one off-street parking space shall be provided for
each approved bedroom offered for rent.
      (2)   All required parking spaces shall be located on-site.
      (3)   Parking on any neighboring property or in front of any other house,
or in such a manner as to block access to the short-term rental unit or any
other house or property is prohibited.
   (F)   Safety.
      (1)   The rental unit shall meet all applicable building, health, fire
and related safety codes at all times, including provisions of a working smoke
detector in compliance with current Building Code and at least one carbon
monoxide detectors.
      (2)   Emergency evacuation routes and instructions, including emergency
ingress/egress routes to and from the property, shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the rental unit and within each guest bedroom.
   (G)   House policies. House policies shall be included in each rental
agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the host to enforce all of the
criteria of the zoning permit and house policies. At minimum, the house
policies shall:
      (1)   Establish noise limits of 55 dB maximum during daytime hours (7:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) and 50 dB maximum during nighttime hours (10:00 p.m. to 7:
00 a.m.) by establishing outdoor “quiet hours” to minimize disturbance to
neighboring residences;
      (2)   Establish on-site parking policies and identify designated parking
areas;
      (3)   Establish polices and provide information regarding the location of
trash receptacles and the trash pick-up schedule;
      (4)   Policies regarding no open burning and all other burn restrictions;
and
      (5)   Provide the name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of
the local contact person who shall be responsible for responding to questions
or concerns regarding the operation of the short-term rental. This information
shall be updated as necessary to remain current, included in every rental
agreement and posted in a conspicuous location within the short-term rental.
The local contact person shall be available 24 hours a day to accept telephone
calls and respond physically to the short-term rental within 60 minutes of a
call.
   (H)   Signs. On-site short-term rental advertising signs or other displays
are prohibited.
   (I)   Special events. No short-term rental property shall be used to conduct
non-owner related weddings, parties or other similar events.
   (J)   Neighbor notification.
      (1)   Each host shall complete a neighbor notification form prescribed by
the city and shall provide the completed form to properties within a 200-foot
radius of the proposed short-term rental measured as a straight-line distance
from the nearest exterior property lines.
      (2)   The neighbor notification form shall include notice that the
property has been approved as a short-term rental and shall include the name,
address, telephone number and e-mail address of the local contact person who
shall be responsible for responding to questions or concerns regarding the
operation of the short-term rental. This information shall be updated as
necessary to remain current, included in every rental agreement and posted in a
conspicuous location within the vacation rental dwelling. The local contact
person shall be available 24 hours a day to accept telephone calls and respond
physically to the vacation rental within 60 minutes of a call.
      (3)   A copy of the notice and a list of the property owners notified
shall be supplied to the city within 21 days of the short-term rental approval
and prior to occupancy by any renter.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.08 DUTIES OF A HOST.
   It shall be the duty of a host under this chapter to ensure that:
   (A)   The short-term rental meets the smoke detector requirements set forth
in current Building Code and that a clearly marked evacuation plan is posted on
the premises;
   (B)   There shall be no more than one contract per short-term rental at a
time;
   (C)   At no time shall more persons reside in the short-term rental than two
times the number of bedrooms plus two individuals; and
   (D)   There is no signage on the premises of the short-term rental
advertising or identifying the short-term rental.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
154.99 of this code, the City Council is authorized to enforce the provisions
of this chapter through declaratory, injunctive and other civil actions filed
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.10 LEVY OF GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   There is hereby imposed and levied a gross receipts tax of 5% of the total
rent collected for every occupancy of a suite, room or rooms or home earned in
the activity of a short-term rental.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.11 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   The short-term rental gross receipts tax imposed by §
154.10 of this code shall apply to the rent for every occupancy by transient
guests who occupy one or more suites, rooms, home or portion thereof.
   (B)   All persons, companies, corporations or other like or similar persons,
groups or organizations doing business as a short-term rental business shall
pay the tax imposed by §
154.10 of this code to the city or such other agent as may be designated by the
Mayor. The City Council is authorized to adopt appropriate regulations
pertaining to the implementation and enforcement of the taxes imposed by §
154.10 of this code and to take all appropriate actions to collect and enforce
payment of the taxes.
   (C)   The payment of taxes imposed by §
154.10 of this code shall be reported and paid on a quarterly basis on a form
prescribed by this chapter and shall be submitted, for the quarterly periods,
ending on the final day of each quarter of the calendar year.
   (D)   The quarterly reporting form and all moneys due shall be submitted and
paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer no later than 15 days after the end of each
quarter.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.12 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is required hereby to pay the short-term rental gross
receipts tax imposed by §
154.10 of this code on rents charged for occupancies who fails to pay the taxes
on or before the date due shall be assessed a penalty of 5% of the unpaid
amount of the tax whether or not the required return for the applicable period
has been timely filed and, in addition, shall pay simple interest at the rate
of 12% per annum calculated on a daily basis from the date the payment was due
until the date of payment.
   (B)   In addition, any person who fails to file the quarterly return
required hereby shall be charged a penalty of 5% per month or fraction of a
month of the amount of the unpaid tax which said return, if properly completed
and filed, would have shown to be due, provided, however, that the penalty
shall not exceed 25% of the amount of the unpaid taxes.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall knowingly make any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return or who shall willfully fail to timely make any return
required by §
154.11 of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
to exceed $100. The City Council, acting through its designee is authorized to
initiate criminal action, when appropriate, against any person, corporation or
entity that withholds gross receipt taxes and fails to remit such withheld tax
to the city. The penalty imposed by this section shall be in addition to any
penalties imposed by §
154.12 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall receive a
notice of violation as a warning for a first offense. A second offense will be
subject to a civil penalty of not less than $100 and no more than $500 as
imposed by the Code Enforcement Board. A third offense within three years of
the first offense will be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $500 and
no more than $1,000 as imposed by the Code Enforcement Board and the revocation
of the short-term rental permit. Any person who receives a citation for
violating this chapter may appeal the violation to the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2018-17, passed 1-14-2019)
CHAPTER 155: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Cellular antenna towers; taxation and business license fees
Cell Phone Towers
   
155.15   Definitions
   
155.16   Intent
   
155.17   Use regulations
   
155.18   General use
   
155.19   Processing of application
   
155.20   Nonresidential district use
   
155.21   Residential district use
   
155.22   Use T-1: Wireless telecommunications facility
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWERS; TAXATION AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Taxation and business license fees shall be applicable, as with any
other business. An application fee to construct a cellular antenna tower and to
issue any necessary permits, including any required building permit, shall be
$2,500, pursuant to KRS 100.986.
   (B)   Additional limits and restrictions are set forth as to application
processing, filing with the chairperson of the Planning Commission, the City
Clerk/Treasurer and duties of Planning Commission of the City Council, lighting
and supporting emergency power provisions.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 6-14-2010)
CELL PHONE TOWERS
§ 155.15 DEFINITIONS.
   COLLOCATION. The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more than
one wireless telecommunications provider.
   LATTICE TOWER. A support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and
cross braces forming a triangular or square, structure, which often tapers from
the foundation to the top.
   MONOPOLE. A support structure constructed of a single, self-supporting
hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
   OPEN SPACE. Land devoted to conservation or recreational purposes and/or
land designated by a municipality to remain undeveloped (may be specified on a
zoning map).
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The technology, which enables information to be exchanged
through the transmission of voice, video or data signals by means of electrical
or electromagnetic systems.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA. The physical device through which
electromagnetic, wireless telecommunications signals authorized by the Federal
Communications Commission are transmitted or received. Antennas used by amateur
radio operators are excluded from this definition.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT SHELTER. The structure in which the
electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications
facility is housed.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A facility consisting of the equipment
and structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio signals from a
mobile radio communications source and transmitting those signals to a central
switching computer which connects the mobile unit with the land-based telephone
lines.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure intended to support equipment
used to transmit and/or receive telecommunications signals including monopoles,
guyed and lattice construction steel structures.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 155.16 INTENT.
   (A)   Wireless telecommunications facilities are either permitted or
conditional uses in variety of zoning districts contingent upon a number of
requirements being met.
   (B)   These criteria are in place in an attempt to minimize adverse health,
safety, public welfare or visual impacts through buffering, sitting, design and
construction and reduction of the need for new towers.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 155.17 USE REGULATIONS.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities are permitted under varying
conditions dependent upon their form and the zoning district in which they are
to be located. The following sections spell out these conditions.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 155.18 GENERAL USE.
   The following requirements apply to all wireless telecommunications
facilities regardless of the zoning district in which they are to be located.
These general standards are to be supplemented with specific regulations for
nonresidential and residential districts set forth in §§
155.20 and
155.21 of this code.
   (A)   When the proposed wireless telecommunications facility is to include a
new tower, a plot plan at a scale of not less than one inch is equal to 100
feet shall be submitted. This plot plan shall indicate all building uses within
300 feet of the proposed facility. Aerial photos and/or renderings may augment
the plot plan.
   (B)   The location of the tower and equipment shelter shall comply with all
natural resource protection standards established in the zoning code, including
those for floodplain, wetlands and steep slopes.
   (C)   Security fencing eight feet in height shall surround the tower,
equipment shelter and any guy wires, either completely or individually as
determined by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   The following buffer plantings may be located around the perimeter of
the security fence as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission. An
evergreen screen shall be planted that consists of either a hedge, planted
three feet on center maximum, or row of evergreen trees planted five feet of
center maximum.
   (E)   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible.
   (F)   Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower shall
provide evidence of written contact with all wireless service providers who
supply service within a quarter mile of the proposed facility. The applicant
shall inquire about potential collocation opportunities at all technically
feasible locations. The contacted providers shall be requested to respond in
writing to the inquiry within 30 days. The applicant’s letter(s) as well as
response(s) shall be presented to the City Council as a means of demonstrating
the need for the tower.
   (G)   Any application to locate an antenna on a building or structure that
is listed on an historic register, or is in an historic district shall be
subject to review by the municipality’s Building Commissioner.
   (H)   The tower shall be painted a non-contracting gray or similar color
minimizing its visibility, unless otherwise required by the FCC or FAA. No
advertising is permitted anywhere on the facility, with the exception of
identification signage.
   (I)   (1)   All providers utilizing towers shall present a report to the
Building Commissioner notifying them of any tower facility located in, the
municipality, whose use will be discontinued and the date this use will cease.
      (2)   If at any time the use of the facility is discontinued for 180
days, a designated local official may declare the facility abandoned. (This
excludes any dormancy period between construction and the initial use of the
facility.)
      (3)   The facility’s owner/operator will receive written notice from the
Building Commissioner and instructed to either reactivate the facility’s use
within 180 days, or dismantle and remove the facility.
      (4)   If reactivation or dismantling does not occur, the municipality
will remove or will contract to have removed the facility and assess the owner/
operator the costs.
   (J)   All towers above 100 feet shall be artificially lighted. In addition,
all FAA regulations addressing safety marking and obstruction lighting shall be
followed when necessary. Security lighting around the equipment shelter is
permitted.
   (K)   “No trespassing” signs shall be posted around the facility with a
telephone number to contact in the event of an emergency.
   (L)   Applicant will provide evidence of legal access to the tower site
thereby maintaining this access regardless of other developments that take
place on the site.
   (M)   A conditional use permit must be approved by the Planning Commission
and the City Council with a subsequent building permit issued by the Building
Commissioner for the construction of towers in nonindustrial districts.
Collocation of antennas on a single tower, antennas attached to existing
structures/buildings, towers located in industrial districts or replacement
towers to be constructed at the site of a current tower are permitted uses and
will not subject to the conditional use permitting process.
   (N)   Any decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify a
wireless telecommunications antenna and/or tower shall be in writing and
supported by evidence contained in a written record of the proceeding of the
Planning Commission.
   (O)   Underground equipment shelters are encouraged, especially in
nonindustrial districts, and may be requested by the Planning Commission.
   (P)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit or gross sales.
(KRS 67.753(4)(d)) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 155.19 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   Applications for the construction of cellular antenna towers for cellular
telecommunications services or personal communications services on new sites
shall be processed as follows.
   (A)   At lease one public hearing on the proposal shall be held, at which
hearing interested parties and citizens shall have the opportunity to be heard.
Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least once,
but may be published two more times, in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county, provided that one publication occurs not less than seven calendar
days, not more than 21 calendar days before the occurrence of such hearing.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be posted conspicuously on the property in
question, for 14 consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing. The posting
shall consist of one or more signs, constructed of durable material and clearly
depicting the following information: (Name of utility) proposes to construct a
telecommunications (“tower” or “monopole”) on this site (a minimum of one inch
high lettering); and address, including telephone number, of the Planning
Commission where additional information regarding hearing may be obtained.
   (C)   (1)   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance
of the hearing, by first class mail, with certification by the Commission
Secretary, or other officer of the Planning Commission, that the notice was
mailed to an owner of every parcel of property within 500 feet of the base of
the proposed tower or monopole.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the persons(s) proposing the facility to
furnish to the Planning Commission the names and addresses of said property
owners. Records maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator may be
relied upon conclusively to determine the identity and address of said owner.
In the event such property is in condominium or cooperative forms of ownership,
then the person notified by mail shall be the president or chairperson of the
owner group which administers property commonly owned by the condominium or
cooperative owners. A joint notice may be mailed to two or more co-owners of an
adjoining property who are listed in the Property Valuation Administrator’s
records as having the same address.
   (D)   Upon holding such hearing, the Planning Commission shall, within 60
days, commencing from the date that the application is received by the Planning
Commission, or within a date specified in a written agreement between the
Planning Commission and the applicant, make its final decision to approve or
disapprove the uniform application. The Planning Commission shall submit to the
Public Service Commission, along with its action, the basis for its decision.
If the Planning Commission fails to issue a final decision within 60 days, and
if there is no written agreement between the Planning Commission and the
utility to a specific date for the Planning Commission to issue a decision, it
is presumed that the Planning Commission has approved the utility’s uniform
application.
   (E)   All new structures are required to purchase a construction permit of
not less than $5,000.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 155.20 NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICT USE.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities proposed for the following zoning
districts: Industrial, Commercial and Institutional (as determined by the
municipality) are subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Sole use on a lot.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Include minimum lot size allowable for the
district;
      (2)   Minimum yard requirements.
         (a)   Tower: The minimum distance to any single-family or two-family
residential use or district lot line shall be 300 feet; and
         (b)   Equipment shelter: Include the minimum setbacks/yard requirement
for the district.
      (3)   Maximum height.
         (a)   Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna); and
         (b)   Equipment shelter: 30 feet.
      (4)   Maximum size of equipment shelter. 300 square feet for a shingle
shelter, or if there is more than one, 750 total square feet.
   (B)   Combined with another use. A wireless telecommunications facility is
permitted on a property with an existing use subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   Existing use. The existing use on the property may be any permitted
use in the district or any lawful nonconforming use, and need not be affiliated
with the wireless telecommunications provider. The wireless telecommunications
facility will not be considered an addition to the structure or value of a
nonconforming use.
      (2)   Facility. The wireless telecommunications facility shall be fully
automated and unattended on a daily basis, and shall be visited only for
periodic and necessary maintenance (except during construction or an
emergency).
      (3)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area shall be the area needed to
accommodate the tower (and guy wires, if used), the equipment shelter, security
fencing and buffer planting.
      (4)   Minimum yard requirements.
         (a)   Tower: The minimum distance to any single-family or two-family
residential use or district lot line shall be 300 feet; and
         (b)   Equipment shelter: Shall comply with the minimum setback
requirements for the primary lot.
      (5)   Access. The service access to the equipment shelter shall, whenever
feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing use.
      (6)   Maximum height. Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna).
      (7)   Maximum size of equipment shelter. 300 square feet, or if there is
more than one, 750 square feet.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 155.21 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT USE.
   (A)   Wireless telecommunications facilities that include towers are not
permitted, in single-family or two-family residential districts with the
exception, of placement on any property with an institutional use (e.g.,
church, park, library, municipal/government, hospital, school, utility) located
in, either of these two districts. However, antennas attached to existing
buildings or structures are permitted. In applying for a permit in any
residential district, the applicant must present substantial evidence as to why
it is not technically feasible to locate in a more appropriate Nonresidential
Zone.
   (B)   Once those efforts have been exhausted, a wireless telecommunications
facility may be located in a residential district subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   General. The wireless telecommunications facility shall be fully
automated and unattended on a daily basis, and shall be visited only for
periodic and necessary maintenance. This shall apply to divisions (B)(2), (B)
(3) and (B)(4) below.
      (2)   Combined with a nonresidential use. An antenna may be attached to a
nonresidential building or a structure that is a permitted use in the district,
including, but not limited to, a church, a municipal or governmental building
or facility, agricultural building and a building or structure owned by a
utility. The following conditions shall be met:
         (a)   Maximum height, 20 feet above the existing building or
structure; and
         (b)   If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate shelter, the shelter shall comply with the following:
            1.   The shelter shall comply with the minimum setback requirements
for the subjects zoning district;
            2.   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300
square feet, or, if there is more than one, 750 square fee;
            3.   A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with §
155.18(D) of this code; and
            4.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with the
parking or vehicular circulation on the site for the principal use.
      (3)   Located on a nonresidential use property. A tower to support an
antenna may be constructed on a property with a nonresidential use that is a
permitted use within the district, including but not limited to a church,
hospital, school, municipal or government building, facility or structure,
agricultural use and utility use, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The tower shall be set back from any property line abutting a
single-family or two-family residential lot by 300 feet;
         (b)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 200 feet (including antenna); and
            2.   Equipment shelter: 30 feet.
         (c)   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300
square feet, or, if there is more than one, 750 total square feet;
         (d)   Vehicular access to the tower and equipment shelter shall,
whenever feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing
use; and
         (e)   In order to locate a telecommunications facility on a property
that is vacant or with an agricultural use the tract shall be at least two and
one-half acres.
      (4)   Located on a residential building. An antenna for a wireless
telecommunications facility may be attached to a mid-rise or high-rise
apartment building subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Maximum height: 20 feet above the existing building; and
         (b)   If the applicant proposed to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate shelter (not be located in, or attached to, the
building), the shelter shall comply with the following:
            1.   The shelter shall comply with the maximum setback requirements
for the subjects zoning district;
            2.   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300
square feet, or it there is more than one, 750 total square feet;
            3.   A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with §
155.18(D) of this code; and
            4.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall, if at all possible, use
the existing circulation system.
      (5)   Located in open spaces. A wireless telecommunications facility is
permitted on land that has been established as permanent open spaces, or a park
subject to following conditions:
         (a)   The open space, shall be owned by the municipality, county or
state government, a homeowners association, charitable organization or a
private, non-profit conservation organization;
         (b)   Maximum height:
            1.   Tower: 200 feet (including antenna); and
            2.   Equipment shelter: 30 feet.
         (c)   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall not exceed 300
square feet, or, if there is more than one, 750 total square feet; and
         (d)   The tower shall be set back from any single-family property line
300 feet.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 155.22 USE T-1: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.
   (A)   A wireless telecommunications facility, which includes a tower, may be
permitted as a conditional use in a multi-family residential, institutional or
commercial district or located on an institutionally used property in any
residential district. In order to be considered for review, the applicant must
prove that a newly-constructed tower is necessary in that opportunities for
collocation on an existing tower is not feasible.
   (B)   The following steps must also be taken for the application to be
considered for review in this category:
      (1)   The applicant shall present a landscaping plan that indicated how
the wireless telecommunications facility, will be screened from adjoining uses;
      (2)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the telecommunications tower
must be located where it is proposed in order to service that applicant’s
service area. There shall be an explanation of why a tower and this proposed
site is technically necessary;
      (3)   Where the telecommunications facility is located on a property with
another principal use, the applicant shall present documentation that the owner
of the property has granted an easement or entered into a lease for the
proposed facility and that the vehicular access is provided to the facility;
and
      (4)   Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower shall
provide evidence of written contact with all wireless service providers who
supply service within a quarter mile of the proposed facility. The contacted
providers shall be requested to respond in writing to the inquiry within 30
days. The applicant’s letter(s) as well as response(s) shall be presented to
the Planning Commission as a means of demonstrating the need for a new tower.
   (C)   A report prepared by a licensed professional engineer shall be
included with the submitted application and shall contain the height, design
and proof of compliance with nationally accepted structural standard published
by the American National Standards Institute/Electronic Industry Association §
222-F, as amended.
   (D)   A soil report complying with the standards of ANSI/ETA 222-F (Annex I:
Geotechnical Investigations for Towers), as amended, shall be submitted to the
Building Department to document and verify the design specifications of the
foundation for the tower, and anchors for the guy wires, if used.
   (E)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennae shall be designed to
withstand sustained winds of at least 80 mph.
   (F)   The ANSI/ETA section 222-F (Annex H: Commentary on Ice Design Criteria
for Communications Structures) shall be consulted for ice load specifications.
   (G)   Elevations of existing and proposed structures showing width, depth
and height of the telecommunications facility as well as the specifications of
the antenna and support structure shall be present.
   (H)   The applicant shall present documentation that the tower is designed
in accordance with the standards established in §
155.17 of this code.
   (I)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed tower complies with
all FAA regulations concerning safety.
   (J)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed tower complies with
all FCC regulations concerning safety.
   (K)   When the proposed facility is to include a new tower, a plot plan,
including all building uses within 300 feet, shall be required at a scale not
less than one-inch equal to 100 feet. Aerial photos and/or renderings may
augment the plot plan.
   (L)   All applicants shall be required to construct or locate on a base
tower structure and structure foundation that is designed to be buildable up to
200 feet above the finished grade. Although the initial capacity may be for one
antenna, the structure shall be designed to serve as a base for a reconstructed
tower with the capacity for three providers when constructed to the maximum
allowable height.
   (M)   Underground equipment shelters are encouraged, especially in
nonindustrial areas, and may be requested by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-16-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BOND ISSUES
      
III.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   FRANCHISES
      
VI.   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENTS
      
VII.   STREET SYSTEM
      
VIII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1956.5        9-4-1952    Annexing a tract of land containing 38 acres, and
                          running parallel southward with the Old Dixie Highway
1966.4        9-6-1966    Annexing a tract of land intersecting the right-of-
                          way line on west side of Kentucky State Route 835
1967.1        1-3-1967    Annexing a tract of land along the Ohio River 382
                          feet above sea level northwest of the city limits
1972.1        4-3-1972    Annexing a tract of land where the Bee Branch empties
                          into the Salt River
2013-01       9-10-2013   Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1956.5
2013-02       9-10-2013   Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1972.1
2013-03       9-10-2013   Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1976.1
2013-04       9-10-2013   Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1978.1
2013-05       10-14-2013  Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1956.5
2013-06       10-14-2013  Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1972.1
2013-07       10-14-2013  Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1976.1
2013-08       10-14-2013  Adopt legal description of territory previously
                          annexed by Ord. 1978.1
 
TABLE II: BOND ISSUES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1936.11       10-14-1936  Authorizing the issuance of $31,000 of waterworks
                          revenue bonds
1938.6        8-23-1938   Authorizing the issuance of $35,000 of waterworks
                          revenue bonds
1938.9        12-5-1938   Waterworks revenue bonds (supplementing Ord. 1938.6)
1948.2        10-1-1948   Authorizing the issuance of $32,000 of school
                          building revenue bonds
-             5-21-1981   Authorizing the issuance of $100,000 of water and
                          sewer revenue bonds
-             11-16-1983  Authorizing the issuance of $150,000 of school
                          building revenue bonds
 
TABLE III: CONDEMNATIONS
 
Ord./  Date
Res.   Passed Description
No.
1957.1 2-4-   Authorizing condemnation of Lot #     owned by David Wood, Recorded in Deed
       1957   Book 16, p. 28 on 4-11-1867 in Hardin County Clerk’s offices
1961.1 3-14-  Condemnation proceedings authorized to secure certain properties:
       1961
              (1) Property beginning at a point in the east property line of Eula Hart the
              point being N 35 deg 24' W 48.6 feet to a corner post, and N 35 deg 24' W
              1794 feet, more or less, from the center line of the pavement of Old Dixie
              Highway
              (2) Property beginning at an iron stake, the stake being S 79 deg 53’ W
              248.60 feet from point in the east property line of Eula Hart, as above
              described and located
              (3) Property beginning at a point in the north line of the aforedescribed
              plant site, the point being 100 feet from the northeast corner
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             -           Sewer line through Hart/Moore
-             -           Water line
                          Granting perpetual easement to the United States for
1942.2        5-9-1942    construction and maintenance of sewers in streets,
                          alleys and public ways of the city
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             -           Cell service franchise
1934.5        7-12-1934   Creating a gas franchise
1941.9        12-1-1941   Creating an electric franchise
1942.5        7-6-1942    Granting a gas franchise to Louisville Gas and
                          Electric Company
-             9-7-1949    Creating a gas franchise
1952.3        8-4-1952    Creating a ferry franchise
1962.1        1-11-1962   Creating an electric and gas franchise
2-82          - -1982     Creating a CATV franchise
-             4-5-1982    Creating a gas and electric franchise
-             - -1999
2003-07       11-10-2003  Creating a gas and electric franchise
                          Amending cable television franchise fees ordinance to
2005-05       6-27-2005   establish a franchise fee via compensation to the
                          city
2005-07       9-12-2005   Amending Ord. 2005-05 relating to cable television
                          franchise fees
2015-01       5-21-2015   Creating a franchise for electric and natural gas
                          facilities
2023-07       1-8-2024    Water and sewer services franchise created and
                          awarded to Hardin County Water District No. 1.
2023-08       1-8-2024    Solid waste collection services franchise created and
                          awarded to Republic Services.
 
TABLE VI: INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             -           Agreement between Fire Department and Police
                          Department
                          Authorizing participation in an interlocal
                          cooperation agreement with the cities of Vine Grove,
1994-19       12-19-1994  Radcliff, Elizabethtown, and the County of Hardin
                          concerning the implementation and operation of the
                          Hardin County Board of Ethics
 
TABLE VII: STREET SYSTEM
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1956.4        8-20-1956   Closing of Second Street from Main Street to Dixie
                          Highway
                          Designating Fort Hill Trail and the road known as
1994-10       3-21-1994   Fort Duffield Trail, a city street and incorporating
                          said street into the city road system for maintenance
                          1) Acknowledging and recording South Street as a
1996-09       9-23-1996   public way and adding the street to the city street
                          system
                          2) Also renaming the street now known as South Street
                          extending from Fifth Street to Sixth Street on the
                          north side of the Paducah and Louisville Railroad
                          tracks, so that it shall be known as South Alley
1999-01       1-4-1999    Renaming South Street from Dixie Highway to Fourth
                          Street as Lillie Lewis Way
2020-01       7-29-2020   Adding list of roads maintained by the city to the
                          street system
 
TABLE VIII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Rezoning one acre of the property located along Hart
2003-06       12-8-2003   Lake at the west end of Elm Street, from Agriculture-
                          1 (A-1) to Residential-1 (R-1)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
References to Municipal Orders
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites               Code Section
6.050                   32.43
6.955 through 6.975     33.04
13B                     119.33
42.450 through 42.495   33.04
61                      32.16
61.810 et seq.          38.059
61.810                  38.017,
                        38.059
61.815                  38.017
61.870                  34.01
61.870 through 61.882   31.31
61.870 through 61.884   34.27,
                        38.074
61.872(4)               34.16
61.872(5)               34.17
61.872(6)               34.18
61.872 through 61.884   38.020
61.874(1), (2)          34.22
61.874(3), (4)          34.23
61.874(5)               34.24
61.874(6)               34.25
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.26
61.878(1)               34.26
61.880                  34.19
61.884                  34.21
62.060                  31.04
65.067                  31.04
65.120                  Chapter 72
                        35.055,
65.8801 through 65.8839 35.056,
                        35.066
65.8815(5)              35.059
67.753(4)(d)            155.18
72.720                  54.25
82.625                  72.25
82.700 through 82.725   96.06
82.715                  96.06
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02
83A.040(1), (2), (6)    31.16
83A.040(2)(c)           31.16
83A.040(2)(d)           31.16
83A.040(3)              31.16
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              32.02
83A.040(7)              31.16,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.16,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.050                 31.15
83A.060(1)              32.30
83A.060(2)              32.31
83A.060(3)              32.32
83A.060(4), (7)         32.33
83A.060(5)              32.35
83A.060(6)              32.17
83A.060(8)              32.36,
                        32.37
83A.060(9)              32.38
83A.060(10)             32.39
83A.060(11)             32.40
83A.060(12), (13)       32.41
83A.060(14)             32.42
83A.060(15)             32.43
83A.065                 10.99
83A.070                 31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080                 31.33,
                        38.001
83A.080(1), (2)         31.30
83A.080(3)              31.03
83A.080(4), (5)         31.15
83A.085                 31.31
83A.090                 10.18
83A.130                 31.16
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02
83A.130(3)              31.16
83A.130(4)              31.16
83A.130(5)              32.15
83A.130(6)              32.34
83A.130(7)              31.16
83A.130(8)              31.16
83A.130(9)              31.16
83A.130(10)             31.16
83A.130(11)             32.03,
                        32.16
83A.130(12)             32.03
83A.130(13)             32.03
83A.170                 31.15
83A.175                 31.15,
                        32.02
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(4)              10.02
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.99
91A.050                 33.99
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080(2)              117.02
91A.080(8)              117.05
91A.080(8), (9)         117.04
91A.200                 33.21
91A.210                 33.20
91A.220                 33.21
91A.230                 33.22
91A.240                 33.23
91A.250                 33.24
91A.260                 33.25
91A.270                 33.26
91A.280                 33.27
91A.290                 33.28
                        35.001,
                        152.025,
                        152.026,
100                     152.096,
                        152.097,
                        152.105,
                        152.106,
                        153.01
100.201 through 100.271 152.001
100.986                 155.01
107                     33.21
116 through 121         31.15
131.010(6)              117.04
132.285                 36.01
134.800                 36.04
134.810                 36.04
137.410                 113.02
151                     153.05
151.250                 153.55
154                     34.26
154A                    119.33
171.450                 31.32
174.100                 91.20
174.100(1)              91.21
174.100(2), (3)         91.22
174.100(4)              91.23
174.100(5)              91.24
174.100(6), (7)         91.25
177                     152.078
186.020                 72.25
186.500                 71.35
189.020                 71.37
189.285                 73.02
189.287                 73.01
189.290                 71.35
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.20
189.394                 71.05,
                        Chapter 74, Schedule I
189.450(5), (6)         72.03
189.580                 71.20
189.725                 72.08
189.930                 71.36
189.990(1)              72.99
189.993(8)              71.99
198B                    150.03
198B.070                150.03
218A                    119.33
219                     152.076
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03
226.070(1)              112.03
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
226.990(3)              112.99
234.490                 119.14
238                     119.33
                        119.30,
                        119.32,
241 through 244         119.33,
                        119.36,
                        119.37
241                     119.02,
                        119.03
241.060                 119.06
241.100                 119.32
241.160                 119.32
241.170                 119.32
241.190                 119.06
241.200                 119.16,
                        119.33
                        119.01,
242                     119.02,
                        119.03
                        119.02,
243                     119.03,
                        119.31,
                        119.37
243.030                 119.33
243.036                 119.33
243.040                 119.33
243.070                 119.33
243.075                 119.31
243.089                 119.31
243.090                 119.31
243.450                 119.14,
                        119.33
243.480                 119.99
243.490                 119.33
243.500                 119.14,
                        119.33
243.550                 119.33
244                     119.02,
                        119.03
244.050                 119.37
244.085                 119.36
244.085(5)              119.36
244.087                 119.35
244.090                 119.35
244.090(2)              119.35
244.130                 119.40
244.150                 119.06,
                        119.32
244.500                 119.35
257.100                 90.43
257.100(4)              90.01
281                     72.26
304.39-060              73.16
350                     153.05
376.275(1), (2)         72.26
376.275(3)              72.27
383.505 through 383.705 92.01
405.025                 130.01
                        32.38,
                        33.04,
424                     33.24,
                        33.25,
                        72.25
424.120                 33.04,
                        119.33
424.190(2)              33.04
424.220                 33.04
436.600                 90.12
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
512.020 through 512.040 50.03
525.125                 90.08
525.130                 90.07
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
610.200 through 610.280 130.01
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code        2022 Code
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.04             31.04
31.20             31.15
31.21             31.16
31.22             31.17
31.35             31.30
31.36             31.31
31.38             31.33
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.20             32.15
32.21             32.16
32.22             32.17
32.35             32.30
32.36             32.31
32.37             32.32
32.38             32.33
32.39             32.34
32.40             32.35
32.41             32.36
32.42             32.37
32.43             32.38
32.44             32.39
32.45             32.40
32.46             32.41
32.47             32.42
32.48             32.43
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04,
                  33.99
33.05             33.05
33.10             33.20
33.11             33.21
33.12             33.22
33.13             33.23
33.14             33.24
33.15             33.25
33.16             33.26
33.17             33.27
33.18             33.28
34.01             34.01
34.05             34.15
34.06             34.16
34.07             34.17
34.08             34.18
34.09             34.19
34.10             34.20
34.11             34.21
34.12             34.22
34.13             34.23
34.14             34.24
34.15             34.25
34.16             34.26
34.17             34.27
35.01             35.001
35.02             35.002
35.03             35.003
35.04             35.004
35.05             35.005
35.06             35.006
35.07             35.007
35.08             35.008
35.09             35.009
35.10             35.010
35.11             35.011
35.50             35.025
35.51             35.026
35.65             35.040
35.66             35.041
35.67             35.042
36.01             36.01
36.02             36.02
36.03             36.03
36.04             36.04
36.05             36.05
38.04             38.001
38.15             38.015
38.16             38.016
38.35             38.035
38.36             38.036
38.68             38.068
38.69             38.059
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
50.04             50.04
50.05             50.05
50.15             51.01
50.16             51.02
50.17             51.03
50.18             51.04
50.19             51.05
50.20             51.06
50.21             51.07
50.22             51.08
50.23             51.09
50.24             51.10
50.25             51.11
50.26             51.12
50.27             51.13
50.28             51.14
50.29             51.15
50.40             50.20
50.41             50.21
50.42             50.22
50.43             50.23
50.44             50.24
50.45             50.25
50.46             50.26
50.47             50.27
50.60             52.01
50.61             52.02
50.62             52.03
50.63             52.04
50.64             52.05
50.65             52.06
50.66             52.07
50.67             52.08
                  50.99,
50.99             51.99,
                  52.99,
                  53.99
51.01             53.01
51.02             53.02
51.03             53.03
51.04             53.04
51.05             53.05
51.06             53.06
51.07             53.07
51.08             53.08
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.04             70.04
70.05             70.05
70.06             70.06
70.15             70.20
70.16             70.21
70.17             70.22
70.18             70.23
70.19             70.24
70.20             70.25
70.21             70.26
70.35             70.40
70.36             70.41
70.37             70.42
70.50             70.55
70.99             70.99
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.04             71.04
71.05             71.05
71.06             71.06
71.15             71.20
71.16             71.21
71.25             71.35
71.26             71.36
71.27             71.37
71.40             71.50
71.41             71.51
71.42             71.52
71.43             71.53
71.44             71.54
71.45             71.55
71.46             71.56
71.47             71.57
71.48             71.58
71.49             71.59
71.50             71.60
71.51             71.61
71.99             71.99
72.01             72.01
72.02             72.02
72.03             72.03
72.04             72.04
72.05             72.05
72.06             72.06
72.07             72.07
72.08             72.08
72.09             72.09
72.10             72.10
72.11             72.11
72.12             72.12
72.20             72.25
72.21             72.26
72.22             72.27
72.35             72.40
72.36             72.41
72.37             72.42
72.99             72.99
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
73.04             73.04
73.99             73.99
Ch. 74, Sched. I  Ch. 74, Sched. I
Ch. 74, Sched. II Ch. 74, Sched. II
90.01             90.01
90.02             90.02
90.03             90.03
90.04             90.04
90.05             90.05
90.06             90.06
90.07             90.07
90.08             90.08
90.09             90.09
90.10             90.10
90.11             90.11
90.12             90.12
90.25             90.25
90.26             90.26
90.27             90.27
90.40             90.40
90.41             90.41
90.42             90.42
90.43             90.43
90.99             90.99
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.15             91.20
91.16             91.21
91.17             91.22
91.18             91.23
91.19             91.24
91.20             91.25
91.30             91.40
91.31             91.41
91.32             91.42
91.33             91.43
91.99             91.99
92.01             92.01
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.02
93.15             93.15
93.16             93.16
93.17             93.17
93.18             93.18
93.19             93.19
93.20             93.20
93.99             93.99
94.01             94.01
94.02             94.02
94.03             94.03
94.04             94.04
94.05             94.05
94.99             94.99
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
95.03             95.03
95.04             95.04
95.05             95.05
95.99             95.99
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.07            110.07
110.08            110.08
110.09            110.09
110.99            110.99
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.03            111.03
111.04            111.04
111.05            111.05
111.06            111.06
111.07            111.07
111.08            111.08
111.99            111.99
112.01            112.01
112.02            112.02
112.03            112.03
112.04            112.04
112.05            112.05
112.06            112.06
112.07            112.07
112.08            112.08
112.99            112.99
113.01            113.01
113.02            113.02
113.03            113.03
113.15            113.15
113.16            113.16
113.17            113.17
113.18            113.18
113.19            113.19
113.20            113.20
113.99            113.99
114.01            114.01
114.02            114.02
114.03            114.03
114.04            114.04
114.05            114.05
114.06            114.06
114.99            114.99
115.01            115.01
115.02            115.02
115.03            115.03
115.04            115.04
115.05            115.05
115.99            115.99
116.01            116.01
116.02            116.02
116.03            116.03
116.04            116.04
116.15            116.15
116.16            116.16
116.17            116.17
116.99            116.99
117.01            117.01
117.02            117.02
117.03            117.03
117.04            117.04
117.05            117.05
118.01            118.01
118.02            118.02
118.03            118.03
118.04            118.04
118.05            118.05
118.99            118.99
130.01            130.01
130.02            130.02
130.03            130.03
130.99            130.99
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.03            150.03
150.99            150.99
151.01            151.01
152.001           152.001
152.002           152.002
152.003           152.003
152.004           152.004
152.005           152.005
152.006           152.006
152.008           152.007
152.020           152.020
152.021           152.021
152.022           152.022
152.023           152.023
152.024           152.024
152.025           152.025
152.026           152.026
152.027           152.027
152.028           152.028
152.029           152.029
152.030           152.030
152.031           152.031
152.032           152.032
152.033           152.033
152.034           152.034
152.035           152.035
152.036           152.036
152.037           152.037
152.050           152.050
152.051           152.051
152.052           152.052
152.053           152.053
152.054           152.054
152.055           152.055
152.056           152.056
152.057           152.057
152.058           152.058
152.059           152.059
152.060           152.060
152.061           152.061
152.062           152.062
152.075           152.075
152.076           152.076
152.077           152.077
152.078           152.078
152.080           152.080
152.095           152.095
152.096           152.096
152.097           152.097
152.098           152.098
152.099           152.099
152.100           152.100
152.101           152.101
152.102           152.102
152.103           152.103
152.104           152.104
152.105           152.105
152.106           152.106
152.107           152.107
152.108           152.108
152.109           152.109
152.999           152.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        8-8-2005    97.01
2013-01  9-10-2013   TSO Table I
2013-02  9-10-2013   TSO Table I
2013-03  9-10-2013   TSO Table I
2013-04  9-10-2013   TSO Table I
2013-05  10-14-2013  TSO Table I
2013-06  10-14-2013  TSO Table I
2013-07  10-14-2013  TSO Table I
2013-08  10-14-2013  TSO Table I
2015-01  2-9-2015    97.02
2017-05  - -         53.09
2020-01  7-29-2020   TSO Table VII
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
520.2    - -         Ch. 74, Schd. I
1934.5   7-12-1934   TSO Table V
1936.11  10-14-1936  TSO Table II
1938.6   8-23-1938   TSO Table II
1938.9   12-5-1938   TSO Table II
1941.9   12-1-1941   TSO Table V
1942.2   5-9-1942    TSO Table IV
1942.5   7-6-1942    TSO Table V
1948.2   10-1-1948   TSO Table II
-        9-7-1949    TSO Table V
1952.3   8-4-1952    TSO Table V
1956.5   9-4-1952    TSO Table I
1956.4   8-20-1956   TSO Table VII
1957.1   2-4-1957    TSO Table III
1961.1   3-14-1961   TSO Table III
1962.1   1-11-1962   TSO Table V
1966.4   9-6-1966    TSO Table I
1967.1   1-3-1967    TSO Table I
1972.1   4-3-1972    TSO Table I
-        5-21-1981   TSO Table II
2-82     - -1982     TSO Table V
-        4-5-1982    TSO Table V
-        11-16-1983  TSO Table II
1994-10  3-21-1994   TSO Table VII
1994-19  12-19-1994  TSO Table VI
                     TSO Table VII,
1996-09  9-23-1996   Ch. 74, Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74, Schd. II
-        - -1999     TSO Table V
1999-01  1-4-1999    TSO Table VII
32.21    4-2-1999    32.16
2003-07  11-10-2003  TSO Table V
2003-06  12-8-2003   TSO Table VIII
2005-04  6-13-2005   117.03
2005-05  6-27-2005   TSO Table V
2005-07  9-12-2005   TSO Table V
                     153.01–
                     153.05,
                     153.20–
2007-01  4-9-2007    153.22,
                     153.35–
                     153.41,
                     153.55–
                     153.63
2007-06  7-9-2007    152.052
2007-09  9-10-2007   152.007
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     52.99,
                     53.99,
                     90.99,
                     91.99,
2007-12  11-15-2007  93.99,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
                     110.99,
                     111.99,
                     130.99,
                     150.99,
                     153.99
2008-01  6-11-2008   Ch. 74, Schd. III
2009-01  4-13-2009   150.01,
                     150.02
2009-06  9-16-2009   155.15–
                     155.21
2010-06  6-14-2010   155.01
                     96.01–
2011-03  6-13-2011   96.06,
                     96.99
2011-04  9-12-2011   54.01–
                     54.07
                     119.01–
2011-06  9-12-2011   119.17,
                     119.99
                     54.20–
2011-07  10-19-2011  54.26,
                     54.99
                     73.15–
2012-07  7-8-2012    73.19,
                     73.99
2012-07A 8-13-2012   110.01
2014-01  4-16-2014   31.16
2015-01  5-21-2015   TSO Table V
2015-02  - -         50.21
2018-07  8-13-2018   93.03,
                     93.99
2018-08  8-13-2018   50.20
2018-09  8-13-2018   50.20
2018-10  8-13-2018   50.25
2018-11  8-13-2018   50.24
2018-13  11-12-2018  152.108
2018-15  11-12-2018  72.25
2018-16  11-12-2018  53.06
                     154.01–
2018-17  1-14-2019   154.12,
                     154.99
2021-01  1-11-2021   31.32
2021-02  1-11-2021   31.32
2021-04  6-14-2021   152.030
2021-05  6-14-2021   152.079
2021-06  6-14-2021   152.108
2022-02  4-11-2022   37.01
2022-03  4-25-2022   35.055–
                     35.069
2022-05  8-30-2022   32.16
2022-06  8-30-2022   36.04
2022-07  11-10-2022  35.055–
                     35.069
2023-01  3-2-2023    50.21
2023-02  5-8-2023    Front
                     119.30—
2023-04  9-11-2023   119.42,
                     119.99
2023-05  9-26-2023   36.04
2023-07  1-8-2024    TSO Table V
2023-08  1-8-2024    TSO Table V
2023-09  4-1-2024    54.01—
                     54.07
                     38.001,
                     38.015—
                     38.026,
2025-07  8-11-2025   38.035—
                     38.042,
                     38.055—
                     38.063,
                     38.999
                    
 
REFERENCES TO MUNICIPAL ORDERS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2009-03  7-13-2009   35.027
2021-01  8-9-2021    35.080
2021-02  8-9-2021    35.095
2022-01  3-14-2022   37.01
 
