WEST BUECHEL, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025-11, current through
Ordinance 313-2024, passed 11-14-24, and
State legislation through 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
WEST BUECHEL, KENTUCKY
COUNCIL
COUNCILWOMAN              LINDA COOK
COUNCILWOMAN              BONNIE MANNING
COUNCILMAN                JERRY EMBRY
COUNCILWOMAN              PATRICIA DANIELLE WOOD
COUNCILMAN                MICHAEL BIERBAUM
COUNCILWOMAN              SAMANTHA BLANTON
COUNCILWOMAN              EVELYN SALDANA
                          
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR                     BRENDA MOORE
CITY CLERK                DEBBIE BATLINER
CITY ATTORNEY             MARK HALL
CHIEF OF POLICE           DWIGHT TYLER
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE BILLY HIBBS
                          
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 32.45
CITY OF WEST BUECHEL, KENTUCKY
SERIES 986
AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE ADOPTION OF A CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, KRS 83A.060(ll) requires the examination of ordinances of the City
of West Buechel, Kentucky, once every five years for consistency with state law
and with one another, and, further,
   WHEREAS, the City Council has examined all ordinances for conflicts, and,
further,
   WHEREAS, all ordinances have been revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete,
inconsistent and invalid provisions,
   NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of West Buechel does ordain as
follows:
   The Code of Ordinances for the City of West Buechel, Kentucky, having been
examined and inappropriate, inconsistent and invalid provisions having been
removed and all ordinances having been amended and reenacted or amended and
published according to law where required, then, therefore, the City of West
Buechel, Kentucky, adopts as the official Code of Ordinances of the said city
be approved as prepared by American Legal Publishing Company.
                      Roy F. Ulery
                        MAYOR
ATTEST:
   Peggy Clarke          DATED: September 2, 1986
   CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 123
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WEST BUECHEL, KENTUCKY .
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of West
Buechel, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council Members of the City of West
Buechel, State of Kentucky;
SECTION 1. That the S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
West Buechel, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage.
Passed this 7th day of March, 1989.
                              __________/S/_______________
                              Roy F. Ulry, Mayor
__________/S/___________________
Norma Robinson, City Clerk-Treasurer
Date: 3-7-89
ORDINANCE NO. 146-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WEST BUECHEL, KENTUCKY.
WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems of Florence, Kentucky, has completed the
S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of West Buechel, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council Members of the City of West
Buechel, Commonwealth of Kentucky;
SECTION 1. That the S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
West Buechel, Kentucky, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage.
Date of First Reading:    4-5-94      
Date of Second Reading:    5-3-94      
Date of Publication:       6-15-94   
                     /s/ Sharon Fowler         
                     MAYOR
Attest:      /s/ Patricia A. Taylor         
      City Clerk-reasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 186 SERIES 2002
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF WEST BUECHEL, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems of Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2001 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinance of the City of West Buechel,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updates sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council Members of the City of West
Buechel, Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   SECTION 1. That the 2001 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of West Buechel, Kentucky, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems
and as attached hereto, be and the same is here adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading: February 5, 2002
Date of Second Reading:   March 5, 2002
Date of Publication: March 6, 2002
                     /s/ Sharon Fowler         
                     MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Norma Robinson      
CITY CLERK/TREASURER
ORDINANCE NO. 278 Series 2019
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WEST BUECHEL, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2001 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of West
Buechel, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of West Buechel:
   SECTION 1. That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of West
Buechel, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is here adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this  14th  day of  August , 2019.
First Reading            August 8, 2019
Adopted on Second Reading   August 14, 2019
Date Published                           
 
                                     /s/ Brenda Moore, Mayor
                     Brenda Moore, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Debbie Batliner       
Debbie Batliner, City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the West
Buechel Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, section and subsection heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes, do not constitute any part of the law, except as provided in KRS
355.1-107. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ACTION." Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   "AND." May be read "OR," and "OR" may be read "AND," if the sense requires
it.
   "ANIMAL." Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   "AVIS." The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   "CITY," "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION," OR "MUNICIPALITY." When used in this code
shall denote the City of West Buechel irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   "COMPANY." May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   "CORPORATION." May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   "COUNCIL." The city legislative body. (KRS. 83A.010(5))
   "COUNTY." Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   "CRUELTY." As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   "DIRECTORS." When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   "DOMESTIC." When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   "DOMESTIC ANIMAL." Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   "EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY." The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   "EXECUTIVE ORDER." An order issued by the mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   "FEDERAL." Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   "FOREIGN." When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
   "KEEPER" or "PROPRIETOR." Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   "KRS." Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   "LAND" OR "REAL ESTATE." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   "LEGISLATIVE BODY." The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   "LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER." A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   "LIVESTOCK." cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
or camelid species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   "MAY." The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   "MISDEMEANOR." An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   "MONTH." Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   "MUNICIPAL ORDER." An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(9))
   "MUNICIPALITY." The City of West Buechel, Kentucky.
   "OATH." Includes "AFFIRMATION" in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   "OFFICER." Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (a)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (b)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (c)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication of the city;
      (d)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (e)   Has some permanency;
      (f)   Requires an official oath;
      (g)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (h)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority. (KRS
83A.010(10))
   "ORDINANCE." An official act of a city legislative body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or
is an appropriation of money. (KRS 83A.010(11))
   "PARTNERSHIP." Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   "PERSON." May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   "PERSONAL PROPERTY." Includes all property except real.
   "PREMISES." As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   "PROPERTY." Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   "PUBLIC AUTHORITY." Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   "REAL PROPERTY." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   "REGULAR ELECTION." The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   "RESOLUTION." A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with
matters of a special or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a
larger extent a municipal order, involves a distinctly legislative act, a
resolution is simply an expression of the opinion, will or policy of the
legislative body on some matter of ministerial business which has come before
the body.
   "SHALL." The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STATE." The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STREET." Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   "SUBCHAPTER." A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   "SWORN." Includes "AFFIRMED" in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   "TENANT" OR "OCCUPANT." As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   "VACANCY IN OFFICE." Such as exists wheren there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   "VIOLATE." Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   "VIOLATION." An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   "YEAR." Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A) In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of court,
or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event, or
default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B) When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C) If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D) In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A) Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other persons
shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or
other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B) When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be done
by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to include
such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A) When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto, it
shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the end
or close of the writing.
   (B) Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A) A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B) A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C) An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Councilwhich enacted the amendment.
   (D) An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E) No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A) Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B) References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C) Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A) Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B) The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A) As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage date
of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances, if
any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B) If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information,
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than $250
for each offense or violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   CITY COUNCIL
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
         
35.   AD VALOREM TAXATION
         
36.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
37.   HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES
         
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01 Form of government
   
30.02 Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city is hereby known as the "Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130(l))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city is hereby governed by an elected executive who is called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which is called the City Council, and
by such other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of seven members.
(KRS 83A.030(l)) (Am. Ord. 296-2022, passed 5-12-22)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath of office
   
31.02
   Bond
   
31.03
   Compensation
   
31.04
   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20
   Election procedure
   
31.21
   Mayor
   
31.22
   Councilmembers
   
31.23
   Legal defense of elected officials
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35
   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36
   City Clerk; Deputy City Clerk
City Employees
   
31.45
   City Attorney
   
31.46
   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.47
   City Administrative Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the Commonwealth, and be faithful and
true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue a citizen thereof,
and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office
_________ according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that,
since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this
State, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of
it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly
weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or
assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as established by Section
228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. Certification of the person administering the
oath of office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath
was administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall
be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 31.02 BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person’s hands or
under that person’s control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of
the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with Section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) per annum and Mayors in cities
other than the first class and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no
greater than seven thousand two hundred dollars ($7,200) per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
                         
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
   Compensation of Mayor, see §
31.21(E)
   Compensation of Councilmembers, see §
32.01(C)
§ 31.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
                    
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The nonpartisan primary election for the nomination of
candidates to elected city offices is hereby eliminated as authorized by KRS
83A.045(2)(b).
      (2)   All candidates shall file their nomination papers with the County
Clerk no earlier than the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of
the year preceding the year in which the office will appear on the ballot and
no later than the first Tuesday after the first Monday in June before the day
fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a regular election for the office. (KRS
83A.045(2)(b)1.)
      (3)   All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m.
prevailing local time when filed on the last day on which such papers are
permitted to be filed.
      (4)   The election of candidates to all elected city offices shall be
governed by the provisions of this subsection and by the applicable provisions
of KRS Chapter 83A and Chapters 116 to 121.
(Ord. 122, passed 1-4-89)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five (5) years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of the city elections only if city
elections are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections
generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that office,
except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
                    
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office;, powers and duties; compensation. The Mayor
of this city shall be elected by the voters of the city at a regular election.
A candidate for Mayor shall be a resident of the city for not less than one
year prior to his or her election. His term of office begins on the first day
of January following his election and shall be for four (4) years and until his
successor qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response
to a vacancy and serves less than four (4) calendar years, then that period of
service shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the
Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person
who shall serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(1),
(2), (5))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective a the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. (KRS 83A.040(1),
(2), (5))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees and under his jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related unit of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within thirty (30)
days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to
his duties persists for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be
declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply. (KRS 83A.130(10))
      (9)   The Mayor shall, before effectuating any significant changes in
personnel of the city notify, in writing, each member of the City Council
causing to be delivered to him/her a written communication describing the
change anticipated and the reasons therefor. The members of Council shall upon
receiving notice of said anticipated personnel change immediately notify the
Mayor of the receipt of same and give his/her comments regarding same. This
provision is in no way to be construed as contrary to any provision of any
other ordinance or the Kentucky Revised Statutes; it is a procedure merely of
notice from the executive to the legislative branch of the city government.
(Res. 76-1988, passed - -88)
   (E)   The Mayor shall receive one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200) per
month as compensation.
(Ord. 146-1993, passed 12-7-93; Am. Ord. 161-1997, passed 4-1-97; Am. Ord. 166-
1998, passed 4-28-98; Am. Ord. 187-2002, passed 4-2-02)
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
§ 31.23 LEGAL DEFENSE OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:
      (1)   "ACTION IN TORT." Any claim for monetary damages based upon
negligence, intentional tort, nuisance, products liability, and strict
liability, and shall also include any wrongful death or survival-type action.
      (2)   "OFFICER." Any elected official of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E) below, the city shall, without cost
to the officer, provide for the legal defense of any officer in any action in
tort or contract arising out of an act or omission occurring within the scope
of the officer’s employment or public duties with the city.
   (C)   The city may provide for the defense of any officer through its own
legal counsel, by employing independent legal counsel, or by purchasing
insurance which requires the insurer to defend. If the city defends through its
own legal counsel and its legal counsel determines that the interests of the
officer and the city conflict, the city shall obtain the written consent of the
officer for such representation or shall provide independent representation. An
officer may have his own legal counsel to assist in the defense at the expense
of the officer.
   (D)   Upon receiving service of a summons and complaint in any action in
tort or contract brought against him, an officer shall, within ten (10) days of
his receipt of service, give written notice of the claim and make a request
that the city provide a defense to the action. The notice of claim and request
for defense shall be filed with the Mayor, or if the Mayor has been named a
defendant in any such action, the notice of claim and request for defense shall
be filed with the City Council.
   (E)   The city may refuse to provide for the defense of any action in tort
or contract brought against an officer of the city if it determines and
notifies the officer in writing that:
      (1)   The act or omission was not within the actual or apparent scope of
the officer’s employment;
      (2)   The officer acted or failed to act because of fraud, malice, or
corruption; or
      (3)   A timely request to defend was not made in accordance with division
(D) above.
   (F)   If the city refuses to provide an officer with a defense and the
officer provides his own defense, the officer shall be entitled to recover all
necessary and reasonable costs of the defense from the city if the act or
omission is judicially determined to have arisen out of the actual or apparent
scope of the officer’s employment and the officer is found to have acted
without fraud, malice, or corruption.
   (G) Subject to the limitation set forth in divisions (H) and (I) below, and
provided that the city shall not pay any award of punitive or exemplary
damages, the city shall pay any judgment rendered against an officer in any
action in tort or contract, or any compromise or settlement of such action.
   (H) The city may refuse to pay any judgment, compromise, or settlement in
any action in tort or contract against an officer, or if the city pays any
judgment, compromise, or settlement, it may recover from the officer the amount
of such payment and the costs to defend, if:
      (1) The officer acted or failed to act because of fraud, malice, or
corruption;
      (2) The action was outside the actual or apparent scope of the officer’s
employment;
      (3) The officer willfully failed or refused to assist the defense of the
action; or
      (4) The officer compromised or settled the claim without the consent of
the City Council.
   (I) An officer who is being provided a defense in an action in tort or
contract by the city shall not enter into any compromise or settlement of the
action without the approval of the City Council.
   (J) Nothing in this section shall be construed as a waiver of any defense
which the city may assert in any action in tort or contract brought against it
or any officer of the city. Defense by the city of any action shall not be
deemed an admission by the city that the acts or omissions of the officer which
gave rise to the action in tort or contract were within the actual or apparent
scope of the officer’s employment or public duties with the city.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A) All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (l)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D) The following are nonelected city offices:
      City Clerk-Treasurer
                    
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(l),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK; DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   (A)   City Clerk.
      (1)   Appointment.
         (a)   Pursuant to provisions of KRS 83A.080 and 83A.130 deemed to
apply to appointment, function and duties required of the office of City Clerk
as hereinafter prescribed; the Mayor, and the executive authority of the city,
subject to approval of the City Council, shall appoint, for an indefinite term,
a City Clerk; who shall be subject to removal from office by the Mayor at will.
         (b)   An appointed City Clerk, before entering upon the duties of the
office, shall be sworn as required by Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution,
and execute a fidelity and performance bond to the city in an amount of not
less than $200,000.
         (c)   Compensation authorized to be paid by the City Clerk for
conditions of employment and services shall be fixed by the Mayor and set forth
in a separate ordinance hereto.
      (2)   Qualifications required.
         (a)   To hold the position of City Clerk, it shall be necessary for
the appointee to be a commissioned, Kentucky State At Large, Notary Public;
this to provide for the general purposes of the taking of affidavits, attesting
written and typed instruments, documents, oral hearings, reports of
investigations, and also of all other acts whereby a person shall be obliged or
may wish to execute a statement under oath of concern or of interest to the
city.
         (b)   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal and shall
seal and attest all contracts of the city and all licenses, permits and such
other instruments as shall require this formality.
      (3)   Act as custodian of city records and property.
         (a)   The City Clerk shall be in charge of city offices and act as
custodian of city records and property therein; be responsible for the
processing, storage, filing and safekeeping of all city records, except that
assigned by the Mayor to and made the responsibility of the Chief of Police.
         (b)   The City Clerk shall make and maintain an accurate inventory of
all public property of the city, including maps, plats and records of land
sites and other real estate.
      (4)   Specified duties. The City Clerk shall be responsible for efficient
performance in respect to the following duties:
         (a)   Attend all meetings of the City Council and prepare a true and
full record of all the proceedings thereof; and also, of such other records as
the Mayor or Council may be prepared and delivered directly.
         (b)   Assist the Mayor and City Council in the preparation of the
annual budget, and of other financial reports requested, except as may be
directed to the City Treasurer.
         (c)   To obtain from the office of the Jefferson County Property
Valuation Administration records of property assessments in respect to
properties located within the city, upon which tax bills shall be prepared and
mailed property owners in conformance with city ordinance and state statutes.
         (d)   To act as collector of taxes, licenses and of other debts of
whatsoever kind due and owning the city, exception may be divided to the City
Treasurer.
         (e)   To act as purchasing agent for authorized city purchases of
whatsoever required for purchase subject to the Kentucky Procurement Statutes,
except as directed to the City Treasurer.
         (f)   To receive and deposit with a commercial bank and trust company,
approved by the City Council as a depositary for city funds and negotiable
instruments, accepted in payment of city taxes, licenses and all other accounts
due and owing the city; to keep accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements
of city funds; to prepare a monthly financial report to the City Council; to
disburse by check, executed jointly with the Mayor, of all payments of city
accounts authorized by the City Council; to annually prepare and publish the
financial statements as required by the Statutes; and to perform all other such
duties required by law, including the keeping of records showing all payments
received, the source from which it was received, and the purpose for which it
was paid out; and keep a record showing at all times the financial status of
the city, except as directed to the City Treasurer.
         (g)   In addition to the duties herein prescribed, the City Clerk
shall perform such other duties as may be required by KRS 83A.085(3) or other
statute or ordinance or by the Mayor or City Council.
   (B)   Appointment of a Deputy City Clerk.
      (1)   There is hereby created the office of Deputy City Clerk, who may be
appointed by the Mayor subject to City Council approval, provided the appointee
meet the prescribed standards necessary for an appointment to the position of
City Clerk as herein stated, who shall have the same power, authority and duty
to execute all documents and instruments required by law or ordinance to be
executed by the City Clerk, and affix the seal of the city thereto whenever
required.
      (2)   When signing any document or instrument the Deputy City Clerk shall
sign the name of the City Clerk followed by the word “By” and the Deputy
Clerk’s own name and the words “Deputy City Clerk.”
      (3)   The powers, authority and duties herein described to the City Clerk
shall be exercised by the Deputy City Clerk only in the absence of the City
Clerk, and then only when either written directions has been given by the City
Clerk to exercise such power, authority and duty, or the Mayor and City Council
has determined that the City Clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated
to perform such functions and duties. Upon the order of the Mayor and City
Council, the Deputy City Clerk shall have the authority and power to act in the
place of City Clerk as herein described, with such other power and authority as
may be authorized by statue or ordinance, bonded to $200,000.
(Ord. 75, passed 6-3-86; Am. Ord. 313-2024, passed 11-14-24)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.45 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.080 and 83.130(12), in order to provide the
city administration with readily available legal services there is hereby
created the position of City Attorney. By and with the advice and consent of
the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint a qualified practicing attorney-at-
law of Jefferson County certified as being in good standing with the Louisville
and Kentucky Bar Associations to the position of City Attorney, in accordance
with agreed upon terms and conditions of employment approved by the City
Council. The approved terms and conditions of employment shall be confirmed by
municipal order.
      (2)   Whenever deemed of interest to the city, the Mayor with City
Council approval, may temporarily employ an attorney-at-law for special
services to assist the City Attorney whenever necessary.
   (B) It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to perform the following
services:
      (1) To do and perform all acts and things authorized or required by
statute or by city ordinance.
      (2) To give legal counsel, advice, and assistance, when requested, to
city officers, the Chief of Police, and other personnel of the city upon
request of the Mayor concerning their responsibilities and duties.
      (3) To prepare ordinances, contracts, City Council orders, and other
legal instruments of the city.
      (4)   To attend City Council meetings, assist in conducting special
investigations and hearings ordered by City Council, and to act as the official
parliamentarian at all City Council meetings.
      (5)   To defend any action which may be instituted against the city or an
elected or non-elected officer or employee by reason of an act or thing done in
the line of duty and in the course of employment.
      (6)   To do and perform all other duties of a legal nature affecting the
city, and to perform such other compatible duties in harmony with the position
of City Attorney, requested by the Mayor or City Council.
(Ord. 95-84, passed 7-3-84; Am. Ord. 211-2007, passed 2-6-07)
§ 31.46 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The city hereby creates the appointed position of Code Enforcement
Officer. Such Code Enforcement Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the majority approval of the City Council. The Code Enforcement Officer may be
dismissed on the sole authority of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have all the powers and authority
extended by KRS 83A.087 and 83A.088. The Code Enforcement Officer shall not be
a peace officer and shall not have the power of arrest.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall observe the following duties and
procedures:
      (1)   Duties. The Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce the city
ordinances in the areas of:
         (a)   Parking, including but not limited to; parking in the wrong
direction, vehicles parked on grassy areas, parking on city streets across from
another parked vehicle, parking across driveways, parking across sidewalks,
inoperative and unlicensed vehicles, parking boats and/or recreational vehicles
in front of home, fire lane, and disabled person parking.
         (b)   Beautification, hazardous conditions on property, sidewalk
maintenance, unleashed and unattended animals outside of the yards, residents
cleaning up after animals, residents keeping their animals from making
disturbances. The Code Enforcement Officer will enforce further violations
which are stated in the state county and local ordinances.
         (c)   Investigate and report compliance with the purchase of business
license for all persons, firms, organizations or corporations doing business
within the city limits.
      (2)   Procedures. The Code Enforcement Officer shall respond to written
complaints, referrals from City Council members, other city officials and
residents. The Code Enforcement Officer shall undertake a periodic city
inspection either by foot or car with routes to be varied and a log sheet kept
of activities complete any and all other forms supplied by the Mayor. Every
initial contact on a condition which the Code Enforcement Officer determines to
be a violation shall be in the form of a verbal or written warning or citation
as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer. Each of such verbal warnings is
to be documented on forms provided by the city.
(Ord. 167-1999, passed 3-2-99)
§ 31.47 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the appointment position of City Administrator
of the city. The City Administrators shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
majority approval of the City Council. The City Administrator may be dismissed
on the sole authority of the Mayor.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall have the powers and authority extended by
KRS 83A.090.
   (C)   The City Administrative Officer shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Advise the executive in the formation of policy;
      (2)   Have major responsibility for the preparation and administration
the city budget, under the direction of the executive authority;
      (3)   Advise the executive on personnel decisions; and
      (4)   Have continuing direct relationships with city department heads.
(Ord. 193-2003, passed 3-4-03)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
   
32.23   Rules of order and procedure adopted by reference
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Councilmember
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two (2) years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age,
shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout
his term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(3)(4))
   (C)   Compensation. Each member of the City Council shall receive three
hundred fifty dollars ($350) per month as compensation.
(Ord. 146-1993, passed 12-7-93; Am. Ord. 161-1997, passed 4-1-97; Am. Ord. 166-
1998, passed 4-28-98; Am. Ord. 187-2002, passed 4-2-02)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within thirty (30)
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular meeting of the City Council. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
                    
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of the city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A) The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has the
authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in the Council in the absence
of the Mayor.
   (B) The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
                 
Cross-reference:
   Council to select one of its members to preside when Mayor’s office vacant,
see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each month until such time as said meetings may be changed by ordinance
hereafter adopted. The regular meetings shall be held at West Buechel City Hall
located at 3705 Bashford Avenue, West Buechel, Kentucky and shall convene on or
about 6:30 p.m. (Ord. 16-75, passed 9-2-75)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Am. Ord. 242-2013, passed 4-2-13; Am. Ord. 275-2019, passed
3-14-19; Am. Ord. 291-2021, passed 4-14-21; Am. Ord. 300-2022, passed 9-15-22;
Am. Ord. 305-2023, passed 2-10-23)
                
Cross-reference:
   Public Meetings, see
Chapter 34A.
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
§ 32.23 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The rules or order and procedure as set forth in Ord. 302-2022 are adopted
by reference as if set forth in full herein. Copies of Ord. 302-2022 are
available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk during normal
business hours.
(Ord. 302-2022, passed 11-10-22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace but one subject and shall have a title which
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of West Buechel."
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or shall disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance which identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, provided a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance
and is made a part of the permanent records of the city. (KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A) Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B) The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36 (C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A) The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B) All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A) Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C) Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may specify, by ordinance, additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years all ordinances in this code of ordinances
shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one another and shall
be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid
provisions. (KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A) Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B) In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control. (KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances. (KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly. (KRS
83A.060(15))
                                        
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Policies and Procedures
   
33.25   Credit card/check purchases
   
33.26   Travel reimbursement
   
33.27   City vehicles
   
33.28   Loans
   
33.29   Contract labor
   
33.30   Use of city-owned property and equipment
   
33.31   Use of public funds
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply;
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States. (KRS 91A.010(6))
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board. (KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis. (KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in a form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond any existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to and
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose. (KRS
91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   After the close of each fiscal year, the city shall cause each fund of
the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public
accountant. The audits shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes no
later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. (KRS
91A.040(1))
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with an auditor, who
shall be a certified public accountant or the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1) The auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
(KRS 91A.040(7))
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975. (KRS 91A.040(7))
   (D)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement. (KRS 91A.040(8))
   (E) If the city determines that the cost of newspaper publication exceeds
the cost of postage, supplies, and reproduction, the city may substitute
delivery of a copy of the advertisement by first class mail to each residence
within the publication area, in lieu of the newspaper publication required by
this section. If the city elects to use the alternative publication method
authorized by this division (E), the city shall forward an electronic copy of
its audit report or an electronic copy of its financial statement, whichever is
applicable, to the Department for Local Government in accordance with KRS
91A.040 and 424.220. (KRS 424.190(2))
   (F)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party. (KRS 91A.040(9))
   (G)   If the city, for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $500,000, and has no long-term debt,
whether general obligation or revenue debt, the city shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this subsection (G) shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this subsection for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this subsection. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
subsection shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. The city advertising under
this subsection (1)(d) shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement
under KRS 424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an
attestation engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement. (KRS 91A.040(3))
                    
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured of deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 1-74, passed 1-14-74)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   "BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST." All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS." Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT." A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 9lA.2l0)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if any other property, or any other
change may be made without such compliance if all property owners of the
improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 33.25 CREDIT CARD/CHECK PURCHASES.
   City credit cards must be carefully controlled to ensure that employees are
held accountable for credit card transaction activity. Therefore the following
criteria must be followed concerning credit card use.
   (A)   All city-owned credit cards will be kept at City Hall and no employee
will be permitted to use a city credit card without prior consent of the Mayor
or the Mayor’s designated agent.
   (B)   If a credit card is given to an employee for a specific purchase the
card must be returned to City Hall as soon as reasonably possible with a
receipt for any purchases made. The employee who made the purchase will sign
the receipt and turn it in to the City Clerk. The City Clerk will retain all
receipts and check them against the monthly billing statement to be sure
correct payments are made.
   (C)   A summary schedule of credit card transactions will be created each
month that includes the name of the employee who made the transaction, a brief
description of the items purchased, the dollar amount of the items purchased,
and the purpose of the purchase. This summary schedule will be reviewed and
approved by the Mayor. If transactions are not approved, or are found to be
personal in nature, the employee who made the purchase will be required to
reimburse the city for any disallowed transactions.
   (D)   The city will comply with KRS 65.140 by paying all bills within 30
working days of receipt of a vendor’s invoice.
   (E)   In the event other purchases need to be made by an employee on behalf
of the city, a check request form must be filled out and approved by the Mayor
or the Mayor’s designated agent prior to the check being issued. A receipt for
the purchase must be presented as soon as reasonably possible after the
transaction is completed. Under no circumstances will blank checks be signed
and issued to an employee prior to a purchase being made.
(Ord. 215-2007, passed 7-3-07)
§ 33.26 TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT.
   All elected city officials, when authorized by the Mayor to travel out of
town on city business, the city will pay a per diem of one hundred dollars
($100) for each day or portion of a day for said travel.
(Ord. 215-2007, passed 7-3-07; Am. Ord. 260-2015, passed 2-10-15)
§ 33.27 CITY VEHICLES.
   A mileage log will be kept in each city owned vehicle. Any person authorized
to drive a city vehicle will be required to note the mileage at the beginning
and end of using the vehicle and will note the destination during each usage.
Gasoline will be purchased on the city credit card pursuant to the procedures
set forth under credit card usage.
(Ord. 215-2007, passed 7-3-07)
§ 33.28 LOANS.
   Any loan made to the city must be supported by a formal written loan
agreement which details the terms and conditions of the loan, including the
amount of interest to be paid and the repayment terms. All such loan agreements
must be approved by the City Council at an open meeting.
(Ord. 215-2007, passed 7-3-07)
§ 33.29 CONTRACT LABOR.
   All labor done on behalf of the city by non-employee persons must be
supported by a written agreement which specifies the terms and conditions of
the work to be done and the terms of payment. All contracts will be reviewed by
the City Attorney prior to approval to ensure that the agreement includes
sufficient detail to protect the city’s interests.
(Ord. 215-2007, passed 7-3-07)
§ 33.30 USE OF CITY-OWNED PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT.
   City-owned property and/or equipment is to be used by employees of the city
and for purposes which relate to city business. No person is to use city
property or equipment for private or personal purposes. Likewise, no person is
to use or attempt to use the city’s resources, discounts, tax-exempt status or
personnel for personal gain. Any person found to have benefitted personally
from the use of city resources will be required to reimburse the city in the
amount of the financial benefit received.
(Ord. 215-2007, passed 7-3-07)
§ 33.31 USE OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   The Kentucky Supreme Court has ruled that public funds must be spent in such
a manner as to be beneficial to the public and not predominately personal in
nature. In keeping with that ruling the City of West Buechel finds the
following activities to be prohibited:
   (A)   Expenditures made specifically to benefit one person or a small number
of persons which has no overall value to the community as a whole;
   (B)   Payment for work done on private property or to improve the value of
private property;
   (C)   Use of city employees or city paid contract laborers to perform work
for private individual(s) or on the property of private individual(s);
   (D)   Use of city funds, discounts, property or equipment for personal
benefit to one person or a small number of persons; and
   (E)   Use of city funds to provide gifts, awards, prizes, remembrances,
parties, or any other type of special recognition to one person or a small
group of persons which has no overall value to the community as a whole.
(Ord. 215-2007, passed 7-3-07)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in KRS 61.870 to 61.884, unless the context requires otherwise:
   “BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH” and “PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE.” A photograph or
image of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes
when the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS
520.010 or photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.”
      (1)   The direct or indirect use of any part of a public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee.
      (2)   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE” shall not include:
         (a)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
         (b)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its
news or other informational programs; or
         (c)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   “CUSTODIAN.” The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
   “MECHANICAL PROCESSING.” Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   “MEDIA.” The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.” The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or
actual personal custody and control.
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.”
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a public competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this subsection;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in subsections (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7),
(8), (10), or (11) of this definition; by a member or employee of such a public
agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in subsections (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), or (11) of
this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in subsections (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8),
(9), or (10) of this definition.
   “PUBLIC RECORD.” All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by a public agency. “PUBLIC RECORD” shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (8) in the
definition of “PUBLIC AGENCY” above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
   “RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.”
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in subsections (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e.
   “SOFTWARE.”
      (1)   The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system.
      (2)   “SOFTWARE” consists of the operating system, application programs,
procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators and utility programs,
but does not include that material which is prohibited from disclosure or
copying by a license agreement between a public agency and an outside entity
which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any resident of the Commonwealth shall have the right to inspect
public records. The official custodian may require a written application,
signed by the applicant and with his or her name printed legibly on the
application, describing the records to be inspected. The official custodian may
require the applicant to provide a statement in the written application of the
manner in which the applicant is a resident of the Commonwealth under KRS
61.870(10)(a) to (f).
      (2)   The written application shall be:
         (a)   Hand delivered;
         (b)   Mailed;
         (c)   Sent via facsimile; or
         (d)   Sent via email to the public agency’s official custodian of
public records or his or her designee at the email address designated in the
public agency’s rules and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
      (3)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876(4). (KRS 61.872(2))
   (B)   All public records shall be open for inspection by any resident of the
Commonwealth, except as otherwise provided by KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and
suitable facilities shall be made available by each public agency for the
exercise of this right. No resident of the Commonwealth shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of any public agency without the
written permission of the official custodian of the record. (KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect the public records:
      (1)   During the regular office hours of the public agency; or
      (2)   By receiving copies of the public records from the public agency
through the mail. The public agency shall mail copies of the public records to
a person whose residence or principal place of business is outside the county
in which the public records are located after he or she precisely describes the
public records which are readily available within the public agency. If the
resident of the Commonwealth requesting the public records requests that copies
of the records be mailed, the official custodian shall mail the copies upon
receipt of all fees and costs of mailing. (KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01. (KRS 61.874(1))
   (E)    Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F) The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 82 inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request. (KRS
61.874(2)(b))
   (G) Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure of
public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874 (4))
   (H) It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1) Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section: or
      (2) Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3) Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5))
   (I) Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the person to whom the application is directed does not have custody or
control of the public records requested, that person shall notify the applicant
and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of the
agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed five days from receipt of the application, unless a detailed
explanation of the cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and
earliest date on which the public record will be available for inspection.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General’s request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within 30 days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the circuit
court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or if the
city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney General’s
opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in circuit
court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information could pose an articulable risk of harm to the agency or its
investigation by revealing the identity of informants or witnesses not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of
the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, "TERRORIST ACT" means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) above, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy of the
recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties shall
not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.05   Meetings open to the public
   
34A.06   Requirements for closed sessions
   
34A.07   Public meeting schedules
   
34A.08   Special meetings
   
34A.09   Video teleconferences
   
34A.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ACTION TAKEN." A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   "MEMBER." A member of the governing body of a public agency. "Member" does
not include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public
agency", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "public agency",
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each "public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE." One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.05 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations for decisions of the Kentucky Parole Board;
      (2)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (3)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (4)   Grand and petit jury sessions;
      (5)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (6)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee’s, member’s, or student’s right to a public hearing
if requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (7)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (8)   State and local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (9)   Committees of the General Assembly other than standing committees;
      (10)   Deliberations of judicial or quasi-judicial bodies regarding
individual adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved,
his or her representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the
agency’s governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of
planning commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (11)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (12)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
      (13)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(m). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly; and
      (14)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or
local law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local
contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussions between individual
members where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on
specific issues.
(KRS 61.810)
                
Cross reference:
   Council meetings, see §
32.21
§ 34A.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05(A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of § 34A.05 authorizing the closed
session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.05(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.07 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of all public agencies of this state, and any committees
or subcommittees thereof, shall be held at specified times and places which are
convenient to the public. In considering locations for public meetings, the
agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws, or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of that public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least 24 hours before the special meeting. The public
agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar year, inform
media organizations that they will have to submit a new written request or no
longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new written request
is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (D)(1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least 24 hours before the special
meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency’s
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (A)(1) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
                
Cross reference:
   Special Council meetings, see §
32.21
§ 34A.09 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedures with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of subsection (B)(2)
to (4) of this section.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
                
Cross-reference:
   Rules of Procedure, see §§
32.20 -
32.22
CHAPTER 35: AD VALOREM TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   Election of county assessment
   
35.02   Due date; discount; delinquency
   
35.03   Delinquency costs assessed against subject property
§ 35.01 ELECTION OF COUNTY ASSESSMENT.
   Pursuant to KRS 132.285, the City Council elects to use the Jefferson County
property tax assessments as determined by the Jefferson County Property
Valuation Administrator for all real and personal property located within the
corporate limits of the city as the basis for all ad valorem tax levies. The
city shall pay the office of the Jefferson County Property Valuation
Administrator such charges as may be required for the services rendered.
(Ord. 108-85, passed 9-11-85)
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; DISCOUNT; DELINQUENCY.
   (A) Taxes shall be due and payable until paid in full.
   (B)   Taxes paid on or before November 1, 2024, shall receive a discount of
2% of the total tax due.
   (C) Taxes paid between November 2, 2024 to January 2, 2025 shall pay the
face amount of the bill. Any tax bill paid after January 2, 2025 shall be
considered delinquent and shall incur an additional penalty of 12% of the tax
due. Additionally, all delinquent taxes shall pay, in addition to the 12%
penalty, interest of 8% per annum until paid in full. Any taxes paid after July
1, 2025 shall be subject to an additional delinquency penalty of 12% and
continued accrued interest at 8% until paid in full. Any taxes still due and
owing on January 2, 2026, and each subsequent year thereafter, shall accrue an
additional 12% annual penalty, and continued interest at 8% until paid in full.
Collection of all delinquent taxes are authorized and shall be made in the
manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. 108-85, passed 9-11-85; Am. Ord. 280-2019, passed 5-23-19; Am. Ord. 285-
2020, passed 8-21-20; Am. Ord. 293-2021, passed 7-8-21; Am. Ord. 298-2022,
passed 9-8-22; Am. Ord. 306-2023, passed 5-22-23; Am. Ord. 311-2024, passed 6-
19-24)
                
Cross reference:
   Ad Valorem Taxation Rates, see T.S.O. VIII
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY COSTS ASSESSED AGAINST SUBJECT PROPERTY.
   (A) All costs the city may necessarily have to incur for the collection of
delinquent taxes, penalties, and accrued interest shall be assessed against the
subject property and, in accordance with the provisions of KRS 134.420, the
city shall retain a statutory lien against the property until such time as all
taxes due and payable, penalties, and interest are fully paid.
   (B) Legal action may be taken by the City Attorney to collect delinquent
taxes, penalties, and interest due and owing whenever due and proper in any
manner authorized by state law.
(Ord. 108-85, passed 9-11-85)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Appointment; terms and conditions
   
36.03   Management of Department
   
36.04   Duties of Chief of Police and officers
   
36.05   Rules and regulations
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The West Buechel Police Department is hereby established as the law
enforcement and protection agency of the city for the purpose of preserving
peace, maintaining order, and enforcing laws and the ordinances of the City of
West Buechel, Kentucky.
(Ord. 77-82, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 232-2010, passed 2-1-11)
§ 36.02 APPOINTMENT; TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All personnel of the Police Department shall be appointed by the
Mayor. The Police Department shall consist of one person designated as the
Chief of Police, and such other officers as the City Council may authorize, who
meet the requirements of the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the rules
as may be set by the City Council. The terms and conditions, including the
rules and regulations under which the personnel of the Police Department are to
be employed shall be promulgated by the Mayor with the assistance of the Chief
of Police and referred with their recommendation to the City Council for
adoption.
   (B)   Appointment as a police officer shall be for an initial probationary
term of one year. No appointment or promotion shall be deemed as final, until
the appointee has satisfactorily served the one-year probationary period. The
authority of the Mayor shall not be restricted to prevent the release or
discharge of an appointee while in a probationary period of employment.
(Ord. 77-82, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 232-2010, passed 2-1-11)
§ 36.03 MANAGEMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   The management of the Police Department shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor and the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall exercise daily
supervisory control over scheduling, training, duty assignment, work relief,
holidays, and training time of the officers. The Chief shall take such
disciplinary action as deemed necessary and appropriate to enforce performance
of duties, for inexcusable negligence, failure to efficiently perform duties,
or for disobedience and lack of proper cooperation in carrying out the orders
of the Chief of Police. At any time the Chief may refer an issue to the Mayor
for input into a problem or the Mayor may on his/her own initiative assume
jurisdiction over a matter to assist the Chief of Police in reaching a
satisfactory solution.
(Ord. 77-82, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 232-2010, passed 2-1-11)
§ 36.04 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Duties of Chief of Police.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to command and
supervise the city police force under the direction of the Mayor, and to see
that the duties of the members of the Police Department are properly performed.
      (2)   The Chief of Police is authorized and empowered, and it shall be
his or her duty, to perform all acts required by statutes and ordinances, and
such other duties as may be required of him or her by the Mayor and City
Council.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all properties that
come into his or her hands as articles of evidence, or that otherwise have been
confiscated or delivered as being lost, abandoned, or stolen, which the Police
Department is or it may be assumed to be under legal obligations to accept,
hold, and safeguard until properly transferred, released, or otherwise
discharged and discarded.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall make, maintain, and deliver any reports
and records required by statute, ordinance, the Mayor, or which may be
requested by a federal, state, or county government agency or an official
thereof. The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of the records of the
Police Department.
   (B)   Duties of police officers.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each member of the Police Department to
acquire and have a general knowledge of the criminal statutes of the state and
of the ordinances and regulations of the city; to use his or her best efforts
to prevent the commission of offenses against the statutes of State of Kentucky
and the ordinances and regulations of the City of West Buechel; to observe and
enforce all such laws, ordinances, and regulations; to detect and arrest
offenders; to maintain order within the city; and to protect persons within the
city form violence and property from malicious mischief and damage.
      (2)   Each police officer under the supervision of the Chief of Police,
is authorized and empowered and it shall be the officer’s duty, to do and
perform all acts and things required of a police officer by state statute or by
ordinance of the city, and the officer shall perform such other duties as may
be required of a police officer by the Mayor or City Council.
      (3)   Each police officer shall be subject to call to duty in case of an
emergency and such call shall be made by and at the discretion of the Mayor or
Chief of Police.
   (C)   Duties of all members.
      (1)   The Chief of Police, or such member or members of the Police
Department as the Chief may designate, shall be sergeant-at-arms at City
Council meetings. The officer shall carry out all orders and instructions given
by the Presiding Officer for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at
Council meetings. When directed by the Presiding Officer, it shall be the duty
of the sergeant-at-arms or any police officer present, to place any person who
violates the order and decorum of the meeting under arrest, and to cooperate in
the prosecution of the offending person for disorderly conduct or breach of the
peace.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to
appear as a witness whenever necessary in a prosecution for violation of a city
ordinance, regulation, or order, or of a state or federal statute.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to
conduct himself or herself in a proper and law-abiding manner and to avoid the
use of unnecessary force and conduct unbecoming a professional police officer
during the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 77-82, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 232-2010, passed 2-1-11)
§ 36.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or describe such rules and regulations for the
guidance and efficiency of the members of the Police Department as he or she
deems desirable and necessary. Such rules and regulations, when approved by the
Mayor and City Council, shall be observed and binding on each member of the
Department.
(Ord. 77-82, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 232-2010, passed 2-1-11)
CHAPTER 37: HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES   
Section
   
37.01   Adoption by Reference
§ 37.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The policies and procedures, compensation plan and classification plan
of the city is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   All employees now employed, and those employed in the future, shall be
furnished a copy of the policies and shall attest in writing to the Mayor and
Council that they have received the policies examined it and understand the
contents herein. Employees shall also certify that they have had an opportunity
to ask questions concerning same.
   (C)   A full and complete copy of the policies is on file in the Office of
City Clerk.
(Ord. 127-1989, passed 12-28-89; Am. Ord. 129-1992, passed 1-7-92; Am. Ord.
142-1, passed 5-4-93; Am. Ord. 222-2009, passed 2-3-09; Am. Ord. 245-2013,
passed - - ; Am. Ord. 250-2013, passed 11-12-13; Am. Ord. 277-2019, passed 5-
22-19)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
38.01   Adoption by reference
§ 38.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The City of West Buechel Code of Ethics, as may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted by reference, the same as if set out in full herein. A
copy of the Code of Ethics is available for inspection from the city during
normal business hours.
(Ord. 150-1994, passed 12-6-94; Am. Ord. 160-1996, passed 1-7-97; Am. Ord. 265-
2016, passed 7-12-16; Am. Ord. 271-2017, passed 5-9-17)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE
         
51.   WATER DRAINAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Collection and disposal service; to whom provided
   
50.03   Charges
   
50.04   Setting out refuse for collection; frequency; containers
   
50.05   Private disposal not prohibited
   
50.06   Commercial collectors
   
50.07   Refuse to become property of sanitation service
   
50.08   Depositing garbage contrary to regulations prohibited
   
50.09   Accumulation declared a nuisance
   
50.10   Contract for sanitation service
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Burning garbage, see §
93.20
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "WASTE CONTAINER." A water-tight container sold commercially for the
packaging of residential refuse for disposal and having a 20-gallon capacity.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77)
§ 50.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE; TO WHOM PROVIDED.
   (A)   All refuse collection and refuse disposal shall be provided as a
service for the residents of the city residing in one-family dwellings.
   (B)   No collection shall be provided as a service of the city for any
businesses or apartments located within the city limits.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77)
§ 50.03 CHARGES.
   There shall be no charge for refuse collection and refuse disposal for the
residents of one-family dwellings. Businesses and apartments shall be
responsible for the collection of and disposal of their refuse as well as for
the costs of such service.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77)
§ 50.04 SETTING OUT REFUSE FOR COLLECTION; FREQUENCY; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All refuse to be collected and disposed of from one-family dwellings
shall be set upon the public way for collection and shall be collected by the
sanitation service that has entered into a contract for its services with the
city.
   (B)   Refuse shall be collected from one-family dwellings twice each week.
   (C)   No more than two 20-gallon containers with lids shall be collected
from each one-family dwelling.
   (D)   The storage location for refuse containers shall be a location behind
the premises outside of ordinary public view or alternatively, alongside the
premises but no closer to the public street or sidewalk than the front-most
corner of the premises on the side of the premises where stored. The evening
before the fixed date of collection of refuse from the premises, the refuse
containers shall be placed immediately adjacent to the paved portion of the
public street designated as the route for refuse collection. The refuse
containers shall be promptly removed from the public way and placed in their
storage location by the occupant of the property after the contents have been
removed and in all cases, not later than 5:00 a.m. on the day following that
same fixed date of collection of refuse from the premises.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77; Am. Ord. 310-2023, passed 12-14-23) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 PRIVATE DISPOSAL NOT PROHIBITED.
   This chapter shall not prohibit the actual producers of refuse or the owners
of premises upon which the refuse has accumulated from collecting, conveying,
and disposing of such refuse on their own, but if that choice is taken by the
producer or the owner of property upon which the refuse has accumulated, it
shall be at the sole expense of that person or persons.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77)
§ 50.06 COMMERCIAL COLLECTORS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not prohibit commercial collectors of refuse from
collecting and hauling such refuse over the city streets except that they shall
comply with division (B) below.
   (B)   Producers or commercial collectors shall not haul refuse over the
public ways within the city limits except in a water-tight vehicle provided
with a tight cover and so operated as to prevent offensive odors escaping
therefrom and refuse from being blown, dropped, or spilled.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 REFUSE TO BECOME PROPERTY OF SANITATION SERVICE.
   All refuse that is collected by the sanitation service that has entered into
a contract with the city shall become the property of the sanitation service.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77)
§ 50.08 DEPOSITING GARBAGE CONTRARY TO REGULATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A) No person shall place or throw any refuse in any public way or public
place, or upon any private property whether owned by such person or not, within
the city limits except in proper containers for collection in the manner
provided in this chapter.
   (B) No person shall cast, place, sweep, or deposit anywhere within the city
limits any refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, or other public place, or
into any occupied or unoccupied premises within the city.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 ACCUMULATION DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Any accumulation of refuse on any premises within the city limits is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and shall be subject to the penalty and abatement
provisions of §§
92.04 through
92.99.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 CONTRACT FOR SANITATION SERVICE.
   The city shall enter into a contract for a fixed or set period of time not
inconsistent with the constitution for statutes of the state with an authorized
and approved sanitation service by advertising in a qualified newspaper for
sealed bids for the contract. Upon the receipt of all bids, such bids shall be
turned over to the Chairman of the Public Works Committee of the City Council,
who shall not open them until the City Council meets at one of their regular
meetings. The city shall make the final award in accordance with applicable
state law.
(Ord. 27-77, passed 2-1-77; Am. Ord. 42-078, passed 3-7-78)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or deposits or places
refuse in a public way in a container other than a waste container, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.
CHAPTER 51: WATER DRAINAGE
Section
   
51.01   Impeding flow of water prohibited
   
51.02   Requirements
   
51.03   Notice of violation
§ 51.01 IMPEDING FLOW OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to, in any way,
impede the flow of water on any public way within the city.
(Ord. 145-1993, passed 11-4-93)
§ 51.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to assure the orderly flow of water, the following steps are
required before any property owner, lessee, renter or other person, firm or
corporation in control of property shall undertake any improvement:
   (A)   The person, firm or corporation undertaking the improvement shall
obtain from the appropriate agency of Jefferson County a permit showing the
plan of construction and receive approval of the plan.
   (B)   The Metropolitan Sewer District of Louisville, Jefferson County, shall
approve the plans.
   (C)   The city shall be notified in writing, with a copy attached of the
permits obtained, of the intention of the person, firm or corporation seeking
to undertake the improvement, after which time the plan will be considered for
approval by the city.
   (D)   No approval for any plan by the city shall imply that the
construction, if completed, shall remain unchanged should the rules,
regulations or statutes governing the public authorities mentioned above be
changed or otherwise modified.
(Ord. 145-1993, passed 11-4-93)
§ 51.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the above procedure shall be
notified in writing.
   (B)   The city shall:
      (1)   Notify the person, firm or corporation performing the construction
to cease and desist within five (5) days from the date of the notice;
      (2)   Should the person, firm or corporation fail to cease and desist,
the city shall obtain appropriate injunctive relief or, in the alternative, in
cooperation with the responsible public agency, cause the action to cease;
      (3)   Continued acts shall be prima facie violation of this chapter; and
      (4)   The expense incurred shall be a lien on the property affected.
(Ord. 145-1993, passed 11-4-93)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS   
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two (2) consecutive
intersections in which fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on either
side of the street is used for business purposes.
   "CROSSWALK." That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "FUNERAL PROCESSION." Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic. (KRS 189.378(1))
   "INTERSECTION." That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle whether
or not one such street crosses the other.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the Chief of Police.
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK." When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET."   Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT."    The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY."   The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN."    To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY."    The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of
the street.
   "ROADWAY."    That portion of any street, improved, designated, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOPPING." As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET." Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   “VEHICLE.” Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways. “MOTOR VEHICLE.” includes all vehicles, as
defined above except, road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on
which power shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only
on the site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation
of persons or property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon
rails; vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires whiles
being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more
than five miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; vehicles propelled
by muscular power; and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010(19))
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or to
fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B) The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C) Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal on
any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A) Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B) Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or "Go"
signal: Vehicular traffic facing steady yellow signal is thereby warned that
the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C) Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D) Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E) Flashing yellow alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F) "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G) Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signs, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate on particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the signal
of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the provisions
of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any of the
public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric signal,
gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such barrier or
sign must be approved by the city.
   (B) Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on or
in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial advertising. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or
public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B) Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
   Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25    Injury to street by vehicles
   
71.26   Following emergency vehicles; driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission
Funeral Processions
   
71.30   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection and permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalties
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so operate or
permit to remain standing in any street in such a manner as to become an
obstruction to traffic thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
important to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive manner
as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter any
intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of the
intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control
signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this division
rather than division (B) above.
   (D)   Except as set forth in KRS 189.450(1), no person shall repair a
vehicle or motor vehicle on any street within the city limits. The minimum
penalty for violation of this division (D) shall be $20, in accordance with KRS
189.990(1), and the maximum penalty is as set forth in §
70.99.
(Ord. 38-77, passed 12-6-77; Am. Ord. 149-1994, passed 10-6-94) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within
an intersection or upon any street in a business district or where authorized
signs are erected to prohibit the movement or at any other location unless the
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such a manner as
to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall be operated upon the streets or highways within
the city at a speed or in a manner likely to endanger or which endangers the
life, limb, property, or safety of any person.
   (B)   The speed limit on all city streets within the city shall be no
greater than twenty (20) miles per hour except for those streets specified as
having different speed limits in Chapter 74, Schedule I.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the fines set forth in KRS 189.394.
(Ord. 37-77, passed 12-6-77)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 INJURY TO STREET BY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle so constructed or so loaded as
to do injury to the surface of the street.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.26 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle not on official
duty to follow an authorized emergency vehicle, traveling in response to a fire
alarm or other emergency, closer than five hundred (500) feet, or to park any
vehicle within a block in any direction of the location where emergency
vehicles are responding to a fire alarm.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive over any
unprotected hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private
driveway, to be used at any fire, or alarm of fire, or for any other purpose,
without the consent of the Fire Department official in command or on duty at
such point.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in such manner as to cause it to
emit unnecessary smoke, gas, or vapor.
Penalty, see §
70.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.30 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CRUISING." The repeated operation of two (2) or more vehicles in a
continuous or nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   "PARADE." Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or "CRUISING" as defined herein.
   "PARADE PERMIT." A permit required by this subchapter.
   "PARKING LOT." Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
70.99.
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date, when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of, the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance
service to portions of the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed
line of march and areas contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves he application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three (3) days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days
after notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within thirty
(30) days after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
tot the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade.
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this division.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
71.01(A), or any provision of Chapter 75, Schedule I, shall be fined not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90)
days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
(Ord. 149-1994, passed 10-6-94)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   All-night parking
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking in front yards
   
72.13   Parking tractor-trailers and house trailers
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
Parking for the Aged and the Disabled
   
72.45   Definition of disabled person
   
72.46   Parking space requirements
   
72.47   Parking with special permit
   
72.48   Using false permit
   
72.49   Parking in space reserved for the disabled without permit
___________________
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two (2) right wheels are within six (6) inches of and parallel with the curb,
except that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the
two (2) left wheels are to be within six (6) inches of and parallel with the
curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than thirty (30) minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited
at all times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten (10) feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten (10)
feet of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle exempt when except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with directions
of a police officer or traffic control devices in the following places:
      (1)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (2)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (3)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (4)   On any controlled access highway;
      (5)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (6)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (7)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway; or
      (8)   In any designated fire lane.
   (B)   For any violation of the propr offense charged, the minimum fine shall
be $100 for the first offense and shall be $250 for any second or subsequent
offense.
(KRS 189.450(5) (Am. Ord. 221-2008, passed 6-3-08; Am. Ord. 268-2016, passed
10-11-16)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A) The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B) The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C) When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division (F)
below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on any
street so marked by official signs.
   (D) When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E) When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division (F)
below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day (except Sundays) on
any street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official may cause the face and
top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times to be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2) No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G) When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day (except Sunday) and on any street so
marked.
(Am. Ord. 221-2008, passed 6-3-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A) The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
      
Cross reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, without
the consent of the owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or
facility. If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise
trespasses in violation of the provisions of this section, a warrant may be
obtained in District Court by the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the
property or facility, and the Police Department, on written complaint of the
owner, lessee, or person in charge, shall remove or cause to be removed the
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
(2) wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 PARKING IN FRONT YARDS.
   (A)   Parking in front yards is allowed only on gravel or paved areas.
Driveways must be properly constructed with tile. The maximum width of
driveways shall be eighteen (18) feet.
   (B)   All driveways constructed prior to August 7, 1984, shall be considered
as in compliance with this section, and shall not be affected hereby.
   (C)   All properties located on state-maintained highways with curbing may
widen existing highways to eighteen (18) feet inside their property lines.
(Ord. 98-84, passed 8-7-84; Am. Ord. 98-87, passed 10-7-87; Am. Ord. 169-1999,
passed 5-11-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 PARKING TRACTOR-TRAILERS AND HOUSE TRAILERS.
No person shall park a semitrailer truck or any parts of a semitrailer truck or
a house-type trailer on any street, road, or sidewalk within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 79-68, passed 6-27-68; Am. Ord. 168-1999, passed 4-6-99; Am. Ord. 310-
2023, passed 12-14-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, to become
effective at a time specified by him. After the effective time of such
prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m.
that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified
time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:
00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official under the authority of this section
shall remain in effect until he announces the termination of the snow
emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Ord. 54-79, passed 10-2-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between these hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term "SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE" shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
Penalty, see §
10.99
PARKING FOR THE AGED AND THE DISABLED
§ 72.45 DEFINITION OF DISABLED PERSON.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DISABLED PERSON." A person confined to a wheelchair or who uses braces or
crutches; a person who, because of the loss of a foot or leg or because of an
arthritic, spastic, pulmonary, or cardiac condition, walks with difficulty or
insecurity; suffers from faulty coordination or palsy; is so impaired that,
functioning in a public area, he is insecure or exposed to danger; or whose
mobility, flexibility, coordination, and perceptiveness are significantly
reduced by age or temporary disability.
(Ord. 54-79, passed 10-2-79)
§ 72.46 PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All owners of off-street parking facilities intended for public use
shall have a number of level parking spaces as set forth in the following
table, identified by above-grade signs, reserved for physically disabled
persons. Each reserved parking space shall be not less than twelve (12) feet
wide.
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
Total Parking in Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
Total Parking in Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Up to 25             1
26 – 50            2
51 – 75            3
76 – 100           4
101 – 150          5
151 – 200          6
201 – 300          7
301 – 400          8
401 – 500          9
501 – 1000         2% of total
Over 1000            20 plus one for each 100 over 1000
 
   (B)   Parking spaces for the physically disabled shall be located as close
as possible to elevators, ramps, walkways, and entrances. Parking spaces shall
be located so that physically disabled persons are not compelled to wheel or
walk behind parked cars to reach entrances, ramps, walkways, and elevators.
(Ord. 54-79, passed 10-2-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.47 PARKING WITH SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A motor vehicle bearing a special parking permit for disabled persons,
when operated by a disabled person or when transporting a disabled person, may
be parked in a designated disabled parking place or when parked where any
parking limit is imposed, may be parked for two (2) hours in excess of that
parking limit. Such motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that
period of time necessary to permit the entrance or exit of the disabled person
from the building or to permit the entrance or exit of a disabled person form
the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than thirty (30) minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not be deemed to permit parking in a no-stopping or
no-parking zone, where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a fire
lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, or to permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
   (C)   The owner of any vehicle marked with a special parking permit which is
not being used for the benefit of a disabled person or, while being used for
the benefit of a disabled person, exceeds the time limit set out above shall be
fined as set forth in §
10.99
.
   (D)   The owner of any vehicle parked in a "disabled only" parking area with
an expired special parking permit shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
   (E)   Only those persons whose vehicle displays a properly issued
handicapped permit shall be permitted to park in those spaces designated and
set aside for use by the aged and disabled.
   (F)   Authorized persons employed by the city shall have the authority and
jurisdiction to enforce this subchapter and issue citations to offenders who
are in violation of the language herein.
(Ord. 54-79, passed 10-2-79; Am. Ord. 251-2014, passed 3-11-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Parking time limits for vehicles with disabled parking permit, see KRS
189.456(7)
§ 72.48 USING FALSE PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall make, issue, or knowingly use any imitation or
counterfeit of a special parking permit for the disabled.
   (B)   No person shall display or cause or permit to be displayed upon any
vehicle such a permit knowing it to be fictitious or issued for another person.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall knowingly possess a special parking
permit for the disabled.
(Ord. 54-79, passed 10-2-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.49 PARKING IN SPACE RESERVED FOR DISABLED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   No owner of any vehicle shall be parked in a "disabled only" parking space
without a duly issued permit.
(Ord. 54-79, passed 10-2-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
                
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A) No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B) No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C) No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A) No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B) No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle shall
operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a parking
area.
   (C) No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle shall
operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the city or other authorized city official and protected by barriers or
official signs, it shall be unlawful for any person on skates or riding on a
coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind, to go on any roadway except at a
crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A) No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or any
toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B) No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of any
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$50.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
    
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Weight limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit on the following listed streets shall be no greater
than 35 miles per hour:
 
Street              Location                                   Ord. No. Date
                    From Old Shepherdsville Road to the city
Bashford Avenue     limits at the viaduct by the railroad      37-77    12-6-77
                    crossing
Bashford Manor Lane                                           37-77    12-6-77
Mall Road           Between Bashford Manor Lane and Hikes Lane 37-77    12-6-77
                                                                      
 
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be subject
to the fines set forth in KRS 189.394.
SCHEDULE II. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle exceeding 10,000 pounds gross
weight at any time upon any of the following city streets, except that such
vehicles may be operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or picking up
materials, merchandise, or household goods, and sanitation vehicles may be
operated thereon on their regular pick-up routes:
Street Ord. No. Date
Street             Ord. No. Date
Bashford Avenue    101-84   12-4-84
Ethel Avenue       101-84   12-4-84
Fountain Drive     101-84   12-4-84
Glengyle Avenue    101-84   12-4-84
Hikes Avenue       101-84   12-4-84
Marvin Avenue      101-84   12-4-84
Roosevelt Avenue   101-84   12-4-84
St. Francis Avenue 101-84   12-4-84
Selma Avenue       101-84   12-4-84
                           
 
   (B) Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
schedule shall be subject to the fine schedule set forth in KRS l89.990(2).
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No-parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO-PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The following streets are hereby designated as no-parking zones:
Street Ord. No. Date
Street                  Ord. No. Date
Bashford Avenue         91-83    9-15-83
Ethel Avenue            91-83    9-15-83
Fountain Drive          91-83    9-15-83
Glengyle Avenue         91-83    9-15-83
Hikes Avenue            91-83    9-15-83
Marvin Avenue           91-83    9-15-83
Old Shepherdsville Road 149-95   10-6-94
Roosevelt Avenue        91-83    9-15-83
St. Francis Avenue      91-83    9-15-83
Selma Avenue            91-83    9-15-83
                                
 
   (B)   The illegal removal of "no parking" signs shall have no effect on the
parking restrictions set out in this schedule, as the publication of this
schedule constitutes public notice of the no-parking zones.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
         
94.   LITTERING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Stabling or keeping of livestock
Dogs
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.18   Dogs running at large
   
90.19   Impoundment
   
90.20   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.21   Noise disturbance
   
90.22   Sanitary disposal of animal feces
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDON." Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by
the owner to the animal. (KRS 257.100(4))
   "AT LARGE." Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   "OWNER." Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This section shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with U.S. Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws governing animal
research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (D)   Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor.
   (E)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) of this section arising from the person’s treatment of an equine,
the court may impose one (1) or both of the following penalties against the
person, in addition to fines and imprisonment:
      (1)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the property
of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable costs, as
determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in feeding,
sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine that was
the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
      (2)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s right
to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject of
the offense resulting in conviction.
   (F)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (E)(2) of this section, the court may order the
sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of
the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any authorized by the
Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal found
abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be injured,
diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgement to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian
may deem proper.
      (2) The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal. (KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 STABLING OR KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, stable, or allow the keeping or
stabling, on any subdivision building lot or lots within the city, any
chickens, ducks, geese or other fowl, swine, cattle, goats, horses, or the
like. No noxious or offensive trade or activities shall be carried on upon any
subdivision building lot or lots, nor shall anything be done thereon which may
be or become an annoyance or a public nuisance. The limitation on horses,
cattle, and the like shall not apply to estate lots of two or more acres facing
the state highway or farms of more than ten acres within the city. However, all
other federal, state, and local laws and regulations shall apply to these
animals. The limitation on horses shall not apply to any other lot within the
city of four or more acres.
(Ord 128-91, passed 4-2-91)
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANIMAL SHELTER." Any premises designated and/or operated by Metro
Government for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals pursuant to
state law and local ordinances.
   "DOG." Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11)
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in
the city without first obtaining a license for each dog. Licensing of dogs in
Jefferson County falls under the jurisdiction of the Louisville/Metro Animal
Control and the requirements are set forth in Metro Ordinance No. 290, Series
2007 (Section 91.020).
   (B)   This section shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents
temporarily within the city for a period less than 30 days.
(Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
(Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
(Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall
apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this chapter and any
unlicensed dog in the city, and shall impound such dog in the animal shelter
maintained by Louisville Metro Government.
(Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11)
§ 90.20 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog in accordance with the
reclamation procedures of the county animal shelter.
(Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11)
§ 90.21 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or
she occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 SANITARY DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL FECES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog to
permit such animal to be on public or on any private property other than that
of the owner of the person in charge or control of the dog without permission
of the owner of said property, or on any streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way of
Metro Government or the City of West Buechel unless the owner or person in
charge of the animal:
      (1)   Has in his or her possession a suitable device for picking up,
collection and proper sanitary disposal of the animal’s feces.
      (2)   Immediately remove all feces deposited by the dog in a sanitary
manner.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to a blind or visually impaired and/or
disabled person accompanied by an assistance dog.
(Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.17,
90.18,
90.21 or
90.22 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined $30 for each offense.
Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 128-91, passed 4-2-91; Am. Ord. 233-2011, passed 2-1-11)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public meeting required
   
91.16   Meeting; public may comment; effect of comments
   
91.17   (Reserved)
   
91.18   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Driveways
   
91.45   Property owner to maintain in safe condition
   
91.46   Permit required for installation
   
91.47   Drain pipes
   
91.48   Drainage ditches to be unobstructed
   
91.49   Notice of violation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and such other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A) The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by City Council.
   (B) Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a state rural,
secondary, county road or municipal highway, road, street, or county or
municipal bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to provide
input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.823(2)
to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for
road and bridge purposes. (KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.16 MEETING; PUBLIC MAY COMMENT; EFFECT OF COMMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state- derived tax
revenues on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a
specific item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak
with regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should
be built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3))
§ 91.17 (RESERVED).
§ 91.18 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(6))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered, with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
                
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
l2 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
DRIVEWAYS
§ 91.45 PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN IN SAFE CONDITION.
   All driveways from streets and roadways into private property shall be
maintained by the property owner in a safe condition, and shall not impede the
free flow of surface waters along the rights-of-way of any streets or roadways.
(Ord. 49-64, passed 12-14-64) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A) No driveway from a street or roadway shall be installed by anyone into
private property until the owner of such private property first obtains a
permit from the City Council for the privilege of installation. All such
installations shall be in accordance with the written directions of the City
Council. If the owner of private property or any other person attempts to
install or does install a driveway without the permission of the City Council,
the City Council may have such driveway removed. The cost of the removal shall
be levied against the property owner, and the property owner shall also be
cited for a violation of this subchapter.
   (B) The City Council shall adopt rules and specifications governing the
installation of driveways.
(Ord. 49-64, passed 12-14-64) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 DRAIN PIPES.
   As a public service and convenience to property owners, the City Council may
authorize and have installed drain pipes under driveways, provided the property
owner reimburses the city for the actual cost of such pipes and installation.
If payment is not made within a reasonable time upon demand by the City
Council, the drain pipes installed may be removed and the entire cost of
installation and removal shall be assessed against the property owner.
(Ord. 49-64, passed 12-14-64)
§ 91.48 DRAINAGE DITCHES TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   Property owners, lessees, and renters of private property shall keep the
drainage ditch immediately in front of their property free of debris and any
other obstructions which might impede the free flow of water between the street
or roadway and the property.
(Ord. 49-64, passed 12-14-64) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.49 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If any condition is found to exist in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, the property owner shall be given written notice of the violation
and ordered to remove or remedy the objectionable condition within a reasonable
time. The failure to remove or remedy the objectionable condition within the
time specified in the written notice shall constitute a violation punishable as
set forth in §
91.99.
(Ord. 49-64, passed 12-14-64) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01 Definitions
   
92.02 Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03 Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04 Abatement procedure
   
92.05 Nuisance created by others
   
92.06 Suspension of license
 
   
92.99 Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR.” A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(b))
   “AUTOMOBILE PARTS.” Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   “INOPERATIVE CONDITION.” Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   “ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW.” A sight line within normal visual range by a person
on a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property. (KRS 65.8840(1)(h))
   “PARTS CAR.” An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(j))
   "NUISANCE." Public nuisance.
   "SCRAP METAL." Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   "UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE." In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A) Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B) Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C) Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates a
safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D) Vegetation. The existence of grass, thistles, burlock, jimson weeds,
ragweeds, milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, iron weeds, and all other noxious
weeds and or rank vegetation of any type in excess of a height of six inches.
(Ord. 92-1988, passed 10-5-88)
   (E) Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F) Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G) Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H) Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      "ABATEMENT COSTS" means a local government’s necessary and reasonable
costs for and associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or
demolishing all or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other
action with regard to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation
and to maintain and preserve public health, safety, and welfare in accordance
with any local government ordinance;
      "AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR" means a person who collects and restores motor
vehicles;
      "CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD" means an administrative body created and acting
under the authority of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839;
      "CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER" means a city police officer, safety officer,
citation officer, county police officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff, university
police officer, airport police officer, or other public law enforcement officer
with the authority to issue a citation;
      "IMMINENT DANGER" means a condition which is likely to cause serious or
life-threatening injury or death at any time;
      "LOCAL GOVERNMENT" means any county, consolidated local government,
urban-county government, charter county government, unified local government,
or city of any class;
      "ORDINANCE" means an official action of a local government body, which is
a regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law
and shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by a local
government which embodies all or part of an ordinance;
      "ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW" means a sight line within normal visual range by a
person on a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property;
      "OWNER" means a person, association, corporation, partnership, or other
legal entity having a legal or equitable title in real property;
      "PARTS CAR" means an automobile that is not intended to be operated along
streets and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles; and
      "PREMISES" means a lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures
upon it.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of this section may be enforced through a code
enforcement board pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839, or by any other means
authorized by law, including but not limited to direct enforcement through the
enactment of an ordinance as provided in division (F) of this section.
      (2)   If the provisions of this section are enforced through a code
enforcement board pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839, the provisions of
divisions (G), (H), and (I) of this section shall not apply, and KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839 shall supersede any conflicting provisions of this section.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any
premises within a local government to permit a public nuisance, health hazard,
or source of filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One (1) or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS
227.550 that are junked, wrecked, or inoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (D)   The provisions of division (C)(1) of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines, or
other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of a:
         (a)   Licensed automotive recycling dealer as described in KRS 190.010
(8);
         (b)   Used motor vehicle dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(6); or
         (c)   Motor vehicle auction dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(11);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private premises by automobile collectors, whether as a hobby
or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   (E)   An owner shall not permit any structure upon his or her premises to
become unfit and unsafe for human habitation, occupancy, or use or to permit
conditions to exist on the structure or premises which are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the
occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the local
government.
   (F)   Any local government may establish by ordinance reasonable standards
and procedures for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply
with all applicable statutes, administrative regulations, or codes. Any
ordinance establishing these procedures may be enforced by any means authorized
by law. Proper notice shall be given to owners before any action is taken
pursuant to this section, and, prior to the demolition of any unfit or unsafe
structure, the right to a hearing shall be afforded the owner.
   (G)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject premises that
necessitates immediate action, the local government shall send, within fourteen
(14) days of a final determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the
owner, a copy of the determination to any lien holder of record of the subject
premises by first-class mail with proof of mailing. The lien holder of record
may, within forty-five (45) days from receipt of that notice, correct the
violations cited or elect to pay all civil fines assessed for the violation and
all charges and fees incurred by the local government in connection with the
enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs, as permitted by
division (H) of this section.
   (H)   A local government shall have a lien against the property for all
civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by
the local government in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs. The affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceedings pursuant to this section, and shall be recorded in the office
of the county clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of
its recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created
shall take precedence over all other liens, except state, county, school board,
and city taxes, except as provided in division (I) of this section. The local
government shall possess the lien for ten (10) years following the date of the
final, nonappealable order of a code enforcement board or final judgment of the
court. The lien may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
   (I)   The lien provided in division (H) of this section shall not take
precedence or priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The local government failed to provide the lien holder a copy of
the determination in accordance with division (G) of this section; or
      (2)   The lien holder received a copy of the determination as required by
division (G) of this section, and the lien holder corrected the violations or
paid all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees
incurred by the local government in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs.
   (J)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (F) of this section
or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a premises upon which a
lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for
the amount of the lien, including all civil fines assessed for the violation
and all charges, fees, and abatement costs incurred by the local government in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The local government may
bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt owed. The failure of a local government to
comply with division (G) of this section, and the failure of a lien to take
precedence over previously filed liens as provided in division (I) of this
section, shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the local government has
against the owner of the premises.
   (K)   The provisions of divisions (F), (H), and (J) of this section shall
not apply to an owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any
land located in an unincorporated area if the owner, occupant, or person is not
the generator of the rubbish or is not dumping or knowingly allowing the
dumping of the rubbish and has made reasonable efforts to prevent the dumping
of rubbish by other persons onto the premises.
   (L)   The provisions of this section shall not be enforced by a county
government upon any premises situated in an unincorporated portion of the
county that is assessed as agricultural land for tax purposes by the property
valuation administrator.
(KRS 65.8840)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A) Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety, or welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B) The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C) Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.05   Destruction of fireworks
Blasting; Flammables
   
93.15   Blasting permit
   
93.16   Storage of flammables and other matter
Open Burning
   
93.20   Burning garbage
Fire Equipment
   
93.30   Tampering with fire hydrants or water pipe lines
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A) The term "FIREWORKS" shall mean any composition or device for the
purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion,
deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of "consumer
fireworks" as defined in division (B) of this section or "display" fireworks as
defined in division (D) of this section and as set forth in the United States
Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
"FIREWORKS" does not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, "CONSUMER FIREWORKS" means fireworks that
are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing fifty (50) mg. or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing one hundred thirty (130) mg. or less of explosive
composition. Consumer fireworks are further defined by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as
Division 1.4G explosives by the United States Department of Transportation, and
include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition
per item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not
exceed five (5) grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which
contain no magnesium and which contain less than one hundred (100) grams of
composition per item are not included in this category, in accordance with DOT
regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
seventy-five (75) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of
colored sparks, and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This
device may be provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike
fountain), a wood or plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or
a wood or cardboard handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When
more than one (1) tube is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams
if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at
least one-half (1/2) inch;
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
fifty (50) grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of
a cylindrical fountain. When more than one (1) cone is mounted on a common
base, the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams,
or five hundred (500) grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the
base by a distance of at least one-half (1/2) inch;
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to one
hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is
produced. May be spike, base or hand-held. When more than one (1) tube is
mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two
hundred (200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams if the tubes are separated
from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-half (½) inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one (1) or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than sixty (60) grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain
more than two hundred (200) grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition,
the wheel revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a
whistling effect;
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than twenty
(20) grams of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but
intended to be placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color
is produced by the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic
composition that produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one (1)
end of the tube is ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon
ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a
wooden stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A
burst of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight;
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability;
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to twenty (20)
grams of pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight;
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to
twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten (10)
"stars" (pellets of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright
color) are individually expelled at several second intervals;
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to sixty (60) grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, "stars," components producing reports containing
up to one hundred thirty (130) milligrams of explosive composition per report,
or other devices are propelled into the air. The term "mine" refers to a device
with no internal components containing a bursting charge, and the term "shell"
refers to a device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in
the air. A mine or shell device may contain more than one (1) tube provided the
tubes fire in sequence upon ignition of one (1) external fuse. The term "cake"
refers to a dense-packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical
composition including lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed
two hundred (200) grams. The maximum quantity of lift charge in any one (1)
tube of a mine or shell device shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and the
maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any component shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the
component. The tube remains on the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of sixty
(60) grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and
visible or audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell
shall not exceed one and three-fourths (1-3/4) inches. In addition, the maximum
quantity of lift charge in any shell shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and
the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the
shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a kit, including
lift charge, shall not exceed four hundred (400) grams. The user lowers a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of
the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another
shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of firing twice
the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission; and
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than fifty (50) mg. of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than one hundred thirty (130) milligrams
of explosive composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light
is produced; and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed fifty (50)
mg.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C) Items listed below are classified as "NOVELTIES" and "TRICK NOISEMAKERS"
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1) Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2) Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3) Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that produces
a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain magnesium and
must not exceed l00 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
pyrotechnic composition per item.
      (4) Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
            (a) Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
            (b) Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
            (c) Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
            (d) Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
            (e) Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
            (f) Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, "DISPLAY FIREWORKS" means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two (2) grains (130 mg) of
explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than forty (40) grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as "consumer fireworks." Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement. No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any common fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under sixteen
(16) years of age.
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A) The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent operator to be
approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be of
such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. "COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR" shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five (5) public displays. A "COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR" is also an
employee possessor. A permit under paragraph (a) of this subsection shall be
issued only to a competent display operator holding an ATF license. At least
one (1) competent display operator shall be on site during display set-up and
firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit
application, as signed by the local authority having jurisdiction as identified
in this section, on site and at all times the display is in place, and shall be
presented on demand of the state fire marshal or local fire chief. All public
displays that require issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code
for Fireworks Display (adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State
Fire Marshal at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the
privilege is granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for
the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
section shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC DISPLAY
OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic
materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person
remaining within the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF,
or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent
display operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall be at
least eighteen (18) years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of
Housing, Buildings and Construction with recommendation from the State Fire
Marshal shall promulgate administrative regulations in accordance with KRS
Chapter 13A to administer the provisions of this section. The regulations shall
address the process by which permits are issued and any other procedures that
are reasonably necessary to effectuate this section.
   (B) The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for supervised displays
by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in accordance with
regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, if
the sale is to a person holding a display permit as outlined in subsection (A)
of this section. The permit holder shall present the permit along with other
verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C) The sale of display fireworks with a license issued by the United States
Bureau of Alcohol, tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D) The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E) The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F) The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or for
signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G) The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H) The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I) Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
93.01(A) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of sixty (60)
days, the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of sixty (60) days, the seized fireworks may be offered
for sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five (5) business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three (3) consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks
within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire
Marshal may proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the
fireworks within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, a hearing
as set out in division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
(KRS 227.750)
BLASTING; FLAMMABLES
§ 93.15 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A) All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in a
manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B) Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C) No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.20 BURNING GARBAGE.
   No garbage or waste matter shall be burned upon any lot or other open space
except under the following conditions:
   (A) The garbage or waste matter shall be burned in an approved incinerator
which does not give off offensive smoke, soot, ash, or odor.
   (B) Dry waste matter, tree trimmings, weeds, and grass may be burned during
daylight hours if burned within the confines of an incinerator-type equipment
and if the person responsible for burning is present, has a hose and pressured
water readily available for controlling burning, and fully extinguishes the
fire before leaving it.
   (C) Burning on rented or leased premises shall be done only with the consent
of the property owner.
(Ord. 66-67, passed 9-18-67) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE EQUIPMENT
§ 93.30 TAMPERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS OR WATER PIPE LINES.
   It is unlawful for any person except members of a Fire Department, the
Louisville Water Company, or an authorized person approved by the Mayor or City
Council to open or close any valve of any fire hydrant or tamper with the water
pipe lines within the city which have been installed and maintained for fire
protective purposes.
(Ord. 17-60, passed 12-7-60) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B) Any person who violates the provisions of §
93.20 shall, for each offense, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500, or
imprisoned for not less than three days nor more than 30 days in the county
jail, or both. In addition, the court shall assess court costs, including bond
cost, if any. Each day an offense continues after notice of violation has been
served on the offender shall be treated as a separate offense.
(Ord. 66-67, passed 9-18-67)
   (C) Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
   
94.06   Depositing materials in Beargrass Creek
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A) No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B) No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DEPOSITING MATERIALS IN BEARGRASS CREEK.
   No person shall throw into or place in Beargrass Creek or on real estate
adjacent thereto any obstructions, rubbish, refuse matter, or materials or
articles of any kind; empty or cause to run into Beargrass Creek any liquid
substance whatsoever other than the natural surface draining of rain water; or
damage the banks or any other part of Beargrass Creek.
(Ord. 52-65, passed 3-11-65) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
         
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
         
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
         
113.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
         
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
115.   PAWNBROKERS
         
116.   BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Fee to be paid; statement to be filed
   
110.02   Fee Schedule
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 FEE TO BE PAID; STATEMENT TO BE FILED.
   Effective June 30, 1996, any person, firm, partnership or corporation
engaged in a trade, business, occupation, service, professions and outdoor
advertising for hire or profit in the city shall pay an annual license fee
which shall be due and payable on or before June 30 of each year, and for each
year thereafter unless otherwise specified in a subsection herein in such an
amount and under such conditions as prescribed, and no person shall undertake
an operation subject to this chapter without first filing a statement with the
City Clerk stating the nature or kind of business or service to be undertaken,
giving the name and address of the owners thereof and the address of his
principal office and the address of the location of the place where he is to do
business or render service, and the name of the manager, if any other than
himself, and paying the required license fee prescribed for his particular
operation. License fees paid shall be credited to the general funds of the city
government and the welfare and safety of the community.
(Ord. 87-83, passed 3-2-83; Am. Ord. 105-84, passed 5-7-85; Am. Ord. 147-1994,
passed 6-1-94; Am. Ord. 153-1995, passed 12-7-95; Am. Ord. 163-1997, passed 5-
6-97; Am. Ord. 171-1999, passed 5-11-99)
§ 110.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   General license fee. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any
person, firm, partnership or corporation conducting any trade, business,
occupation, service, profession and outdoor advertising for hire, or profit
from a place of business within the city, including his own residence or that
of another, shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred seventy-five dollars
($175.00). An additional ten dollars ($10.00) late fee will be added for each
month after the due date until paid in full. A person opening or starting a
business or service during a year or operating a business or service for only a
part of a year shall only be liable and required to pay a license fee for the
months the business or service is operated.
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages. A person operating a tavern serving food in
connection with the retailing of whiskey, wines, and malt beverages by the
drink on his premises shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifteen
dollars ($115.00)
   (C)   Automobile sales and service. A person operating a sales establishment
for new and used automobiles, trucks, and allied equipment, including repair
services for automobiles and trucks, and sales of automotive parts, gasoline,
and oils shall pay an annual license fee of four hundred ninety-five dollars
($495.00).
   (D)   Barber shop, beauty shop. A person operating a barber shop or a beauty
shop shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifty-five dollars
($155.00)
   (E)   Coin operated machines.
      (1)   Coin operated amusement machines.
         (a)   As used in this division (1), "COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINE"
shall mean and include any lawful coin- or token- operated machine or device
which contains no element of chance and which as a result of depositing a coin,
token, or other object automatically by or through some mechanical operation
affords music or amusement of some character with or without vending any
merchandise, but in addition to any such merchandise. Such coin-operated
amusement machine shall not include any bona fide merchandise vending machine
in which there is incorporated no amusement features. (KRS 137.010)
_____________
Editor’s note:
   KRS 137.010 repealed 1994 Ky. Acts ch. 13, sec. 3, effective June 30, 1994
         (b)   Every person operating an establishment in which coin-operated
amusement machines, as defined above, are utilized by the public shall pay an
annual license fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each machine.
      (2)   Coin-operated service machines. Every person operating an
establishment wherein coin-operated machines are used for service, copy
machines, and other like service machines, shall pay an annual license fee of
twenty-two dollars ($22.00) on each and every such machine on the premises
available to the public. This section shall not apply to coin-operated public
telephones.
      (3)   Vending machines. Every person operating an establishment wherein
coin-operated vending machines are used shall pay an annual license fee of
twenty-two dollars ($22.00) on each and every machine on the premises available
to the public.
   (F)   Construction and building materials. Any person, firm, partnership or
corporation, operating a business consisting of but not limited to drawing of
plans, labor, subcontracting work, and carpentry, shall pay an annual license
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      (1)   Subcontractors under this chapter shall be charged an annual
license fee of fifty dollars ($50).
   (G)   Contracting and/or subcontracting. A person engaged in a contracting
and/or subcontracting business who uses his residence within the city for
office space for storage of tools and equipment only and who can show that more
than eighty-five percent (85%) of this business is normally done outside the
city shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifty-five dollars
($155.00).
   (H)   Deliveries made within the city limits. Any person, firm, or
corporation selling and/or delivering directly for sale (including, but not
limited to retailers, householders, wholesalers and distributors) food
products, hard goods, clothing, or any other items for resale or individual
uses, shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred twenty-five dollars
($125.00). Companies requiring more than twenty (20) truck stickers will be
required to pay for additional stickers, at the rate of fifty cents ($.50) each
or they may self duplicate as many as needed. All delivery vehicles are
required to have a sticker. (Rev. 5-99)
   (I)   Electrical appliances. A person operating a shop for electrical
appliances shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifty-five dollars
($155.00).
   (J)   Electronics sale and service. Any person, firm, partnership or
corporation operating a shop for radio, TV, VCR, etc., shall pay an annual
license fee of one hundred fifteen dollars ($115.00)
   (K)   Food market or drugstore. A person operating a retail food market or
drugstore carrying a mixed inventory of food items, manufactured tobacco
products, beverages, paper goods, and the like shall pay an annual license fee
of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   (L)   Fresh produce sales. A person operating a shop for retail sale of
fresh produce as a specialty shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred
fifty-five dollars ($155.00)
   (M)   Gasoline service station. A person operating a gasoline service
station shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifty-five dollars
($155.00).
   (N)   Insurance agency. A person operating an insurance agency shall pay an
annual license fee of one hundred fifty-five dollars ($155.00).
   (O)   Real estate office. A person operating a real estate office or agency
shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifty-five dollars ($155.00).
   (P)   Sales of building materials. Any person, firm, partnership or
corporation operating sales of lumber and building materials, a woodworking
shop producing finished lumber and wood products made to order shall pay an
annual license fee of one hundred fifty-five dollars ($155.00).
   (Q)   Shop for small appliances in the home. Any person, firm, partnership
or corporation operating a shop for refrigerators, washers, dryers, etc., shall
pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifteen dollars ($115.00).
(Ord. 87-83, passed 3-2-83; Am. Ord. 105-84, passed 5-7-85; Am. Ord. 147,
passed 6-1-94; Am. Ord. 153, passed 12-5-95; Am. Ord. 163-1997, passed 5-6-97;
Am. Ord. 171-1999, passed 5-11-99; Am. Ord. 238-2011, passed 11-1-11)
   (R)   Signs.
      (1)   There shall be no commercial advertising signs erected, installed,
posted, or placed within the corporate limits of the city without first
obtaining a permit from the City Clerk and paying the fee therefor.
      (2)   Every person, firm, corporation, or association maintaining any
signs which are visible from the exterior, whether it is attached to the
structure or free standing, shall pay an annual license fee in accordance with
the size of sign as follows:
         (a)   Signs in excess of 14 by 25 feet or 350 square feet in total
measurement shall pay five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         (b)   Signs in excess of 10 by 18 feet or 180 square feet and less
than 14 by 25 feet or 350 square feet in total measurement shall pay one
hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00).
         (c)   Signs in excess of 6 by 12 feet or 72 square feet and less than
10 by 18 feet or 180 square feet in total measurement shall pay one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
         (d)   Signs under 6 by 12 feet or 72 square feet in total measurement
shall pay one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00).
(Ord. 93-84, passed 5-1-84; Am. Ord. 163-1997, passed 5-6-97; Am. Ord. 171-
1999, passed 5-11-99)
   (S)   Temporary or transient business. A person engaging in the business of
selling merchandise of any kind or character or for the exhibition thereof on a
temporary or transient basis shall pay a minimum license fee of five dollars
($5.00) per day or for a part day that said business is conducted and said
license fee shall be paid in advance. For more specific license regulations
concerning temporary or transient businesses, see
Chapter 111 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 87-83, passed 3-2-83; Am. Ord. 105-84, passed 5-7-85; Am. Ord. 163-1997,
passed 5-6-97; Am. Ord. 171-1999, passed 5-11-99; Am. Ord. 248-2013, passed 8-
13-13)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   A person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) upon conviction, or
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months, or both.
(Ord. 105-84, passed 5-7-85; Am. Ord. 163-1997, passed 5-6-97)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01 Definitions
   
111.02 License requirement
   
111.03 Application procedure
   
111.04 Standards for issuance
   
111.05 Revocation procedure
   
111.06 Standards for revocation
   
111.07 Appeal procedure
   
111.08 Provision for service of process
   
111.09 Exhibition of licenses and badges
 
   
111.99 Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS." The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   "GOODS." Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   "ITINERANT MERCHANT." Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   "PEDDLER."
      (1) Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2) Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   "SOLICITOR." Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A) Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B) The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as established
in §
110.02 (Temporary or Transient Businesses).
   (C) No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D) All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A) All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the City Clerk. This application shall be
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership,
or by the president if a corporation. Applications should be made on forms
available in the office of the City Clerk. The application shall state:
      (1) The name and address of the applicant;
      (2) (a) The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b) The local address of such individual;
         (c) The permanent address of such individual;
         (d) The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3) The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4) The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5) (a) The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered;
         (b) If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c) If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown,
and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6) The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7) Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B) All applications for peddler or solicitor licenses shall state, in
addition to statements required by division (A):
      (1) A description of the applicant;
      (2) A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C) All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1) Two letters of recommendation from any person residing or doing
business in the city certifying the applicant’s good moral character and
business responsibility; or, in lieu of such letters, other evidence which may
be used by the City Clerk to satisfy his duties under §
111.04;
      (2) If required by the City Clerk, copies of all printed advertising
proposed to be used in connection with the applicant’s business;
      (3) Credentials from the person, if any, for which the applicant proposes
to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative.
   (D) Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
   (E) Upon receipt of the application, the City Clerk shall cause a set of
applicant’s fingerprints to be taken and attached to the application; he shall
also cause a picture of the applicant to be taken and to be attached to the
application.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A) Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B) The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1) Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2) Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3) Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to itinerant
merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4) Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5) Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6) Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A) Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application; or
   (B) Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection with
the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C) Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D) Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E) Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a way
as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of
the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A) Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B) The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 PROVISION FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   (A) Requirements of successful applicant.
      (1) Upon receipt of notice of approval of his application, the applicant
shall file with the City Clerk an instrument appointing the City Clerk as his
true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of
process for and on behalf of applicant in respect to any matter arising under
this chapter.
      (2) Forms for the required statement are available at the City Clerk’s
office. Such form or instrument shall contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made
upon this agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if
personally served upon the applicant, according to the law of this or any other
state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgment.
   (B) Duty of City Clerk. Immediately upon service of any process upon the
City Clerk under this chapter, the City Clerk shall send, by registered mail, a
copy of the process to the licensee at his last known address.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 EXHIBITION OF LICENSES AND BADGES.
   (A) Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall be
posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more than
one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B) The City Clerk shall issue a badge to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The badge shall contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or
"Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The badge shall be worn conspicuously by the licensee during such time
as he is engaged in the business licensed.
   (C) Peddlers or solicitors shall exhibit their license at the request of any
citizen.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES   
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Amount of fee
   
112.03   Tax rate
   
112.04   Tax on premiums returned to policyholders
   
112.05   Workers’ compensation premiums
   
112.06   License fee rate for life insurance policies
   
112.07   License fee due after each calendar quarter
   
112.08   Written breakdown of collections
   
112.09   Interest due on unpaid license fees
   
112.10   Exemptions
   
112.11   Fees to be paid to General Fund
 
      
Cross reference:
   License fee for agency, see §
110.02(K)
      
Statutory reference:
   License tax on insurance companies, see KRS 91A.080
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby created a license fee to be imposed upon any insurance
company with respect to any policy that is not a life insurance policy, based
upon 10% of the premiums actually collected by the company within each calendar
quarter on risk located within the corporate limits of the city, on those
classes of business that the company is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policyholders. In the event that Metro Louisville shall
impose a higher percentage than 10%, either as a fee or tax, then the rate
imposed herein shall be automatically increased to equal but not exceed the
rate imposed by Metro Louisville.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.02 AMOUNT OF FEE.
   In determining the amount of license fee to be collected and paid to the
city, the insurance company shall use the tax rate effective on the first day
of the policy term.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.03 TAX RATE.
   When an insurance company collects a premium as a result of the change in
the policy during the policy term, the tax rate used shall be the rate in
effect on the effective date of the policy change.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.04 TAX ON PREMIUMS RETURNED TO POLICYHOLDERS.
   With respect to premiums returned to policyholders, the license fee or tax
shall be returned by the insurance company to the policyholder pro rata on the
unexpired amount of the premium at the same rate at which it was collected, and
shall be taken as a credit by the insurance company on its next quarterly
report to the city.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.05 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PREMIUMS.
   The license fee imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums
received for insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to
their employees, or the death of their employees caused thereby, under the
provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.06 LICENSE FEE RATE FOR LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES.
   The license fee of 10% of the premium actually collected, or tax imposed by
this chapter upon an insurance company with respect to life insurance policies,
shall be based upon the first year’s premiums, and shall be applied to the
amount of the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter upon the
lives of persons residing within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.07 LICENSE FEE DUE AFTER EACH CALENDAR QUARTER.
   The license fees provided for by this chapter shall be due 30 days after the
end of each calendar quarter.   
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.08 WRITTEN BREAKDOWNS OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.09 INTEREST DUE ON UNPAID LICENSE FEES.
   Any license fee not paid on or before the due date shall bear interest, at
the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6), from the date due until
paid. Such interest payable to the city is separate of any penalties provided
for in KRS 91A.080(7).
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   Specifically excluded from the license fees imposed herein are premiums
received on policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225, and premiums received on health insurance policies issued to
individuals, and premiums on polices issued through Kentucky Access created in
KRS 304.178-005.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
§ 112.11 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the general fund of
the city. The City Clerk is instructed to advise the Department of Insurance
that all monies collected is the property of, and shall be forwarded to, the
City of West Buechel.
(Ord. 303-2023, passed 2-10-23)
CHAPTER 113: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License application required
   
113.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
113.04   Apportionment
   
113.05   Employers to withhold
   
113.06   Returns required
   
113.07   Extensions
   
113.08   Refunds
   
113.09   Federal audit provisions
   
113.10   Administrative provisions
   
113.11   Information to remain confidential
   
113.12   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and their derivatives shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended.
   "BUSINESS." Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. "BUSINESS" shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. "BUSINESS" shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   "BUSINESS ENTITY." Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   "CITY." The city of West Buechel, Kentucky.
   "COMPENSATION." Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   "CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT." The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity-
s federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person who renders services to another person or any
business entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any
officer, employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any
political subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one
or more of the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under
the Internal Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   "EMPLOYER." The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term "EMPLOYER" means the person having control of the payment of such
wages; and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term "EMPLOYER" means such
person.
   "FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT." The revenue agent=s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   "FISCAL YEAR." An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of
any month other than December.
   "GROSS RECEIPTS." All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease, or
rental of goods or services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   "INTERNAL REVENUE CODE." The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2006, and any amendments made subsequent to that date.
   "PERSON." Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word "PERSON" is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   "RETURN" or "REPORT." Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   "SALES REVENUE." Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods,
services, or property.
   "TAX DISTRICT." Any city of the first to fifth class, county, urban county,
charter county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing
district, or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy
net profits, gross receipts, or occupational license taxes.
   "TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS." In case of a business entity having payroll or
sales revenues both within and without the city means gross receipts as defined
in this section, and as apportioned under §
113.04.
   "TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS." In case of a business entity having payroll or
sales revenues only within the city means gross receipts as defined in this
section.
   "TAXABLE YEAR." The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city of West
Buechel shall be required to apply for and obtain a occupational license from
the city of West Buechel before the commencement of business or in the event of
a change of business status. licensees are required to notify the city of any
changes in address, The cessation of business, or any other changes that render
the information supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 225-2009, passed - -09; Am. Ord. 227-
2009, passed - -09; Am. Ord. 237-2011, passed 6-21-11; Am. Ord. 247-2013,
passed - - ; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that makes a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the Kentucky
Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an annual
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city.
      (1)   The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.5% of all wages
and compensation paid or payable in the city for work done or services
performed or rendered in the city by every resident and nonresident who is an
employee;
      (2)   The occupational license tax shall be measured by .25% of the gross
receipts from all annual receipts, whether the business was conducted inside or
outside of the city by a resident or nonresident business entity, or $500.00,
whichever is greater.
   (B)   The maximum tax liability under this ordinance shall be assessed as
follows:
      (1)   For each employee $50,000.00.
      (2)   For each business entity, there shall be a $1,000,000.00 maximum
liability for the portion of the occupational license tax which is measured by
gross receipts.
   (C)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public Service Corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their gross receipts derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their gross receipts derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages;
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporating under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 225-2009, passed - -09; Am. Ord. 227-
2009, passed - -09; Am. Ord. 252-2014, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed
3-14-17)
§ 113.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, gross receipts
shall be apportioned to the city by multiplying the gross receipts by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the payroll factor plus the sales factor,
and the denominator of which is two (2).
      (1)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
total amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business
entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation
paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
      (2)   (a)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
total sales of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales of the business entity everywhere
during the tax period.
         (b)   Sales of tangible personal property are in the city if:
            1.   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other
than the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within
the city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
            2.   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
         (c)   Sales, other than sales of tangible personal property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
         (d)   For purposes of this section "SALES" shall mean all gross sales
less returns and allowances for the sale of merchandise, services, or both,
computed by the method of accounting properly utilized by the licensee for
federal income tax purposes.
         (e)   If either factor under division (a) or (b) is absent, then the
business apportionment percentage shall be equal to the remaining percentage
determined under division (a) or (b). A factor is not deemed to be absent
merely because none of the licensees receipts arose inside the city or because
none of the wages paid by the licensee were for services performed or rendered
inside the city.
   (B)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one (1) or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one (1) or more additional factors which will
fairly represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (C)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayers reported percentages under this subsection,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (D)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is "passed through" to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
"passed through" these entities to the owners.
   (E)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (F)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04)
§ 113.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
113.03. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and lax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment, of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
subsection unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for,
or pay over the tax imposed by this ordinance at the time that the taxes
imposed by this ordinance become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding subsections (G) and (H) of this section, every
employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
113.03 shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee,
such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the [city,
county, school district] each quarter in the same manner as if they were the
employer.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return at the time of filing-its occupational license tax return with the city.
Whenever, in the opinion of the city, it is necessary to examine the federal
income lax return of any business entity in order to audit the return, the city
may compel the business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any
statements and schedules in support thereof. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this ordinance shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The city, may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six (6) months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal
Revenue Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing
its return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for
payment of the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the
amount properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve percent (12%) per annum simple
interest on the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from
the time the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to
the city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (C)   Every business entity making payments of $600 or more to persons other
than employees for services performed within the city are responsible for
maintaining the records of those payments and for completing IRS Form 1099 on
or before February 28 of the year following the close of the calendar year in
which such compensation was paid.
   (D)   Persons or business entities not required to remit a Form 1099 remain
liable to the city to remit equivalent information for any compensation made to
persons or business entities that are not employees.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
113.06, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the city from the employer within two (2) years from the date the overpayment
was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license lax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the filing
of a return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient
to verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   Where there has been an overpayment of net profits tax upon business
levied under §
113.03, a refund or credit shall be made to any person or business entity to
the extent of overpayment only upon a written application for refund or credit
to the city within two (2) years from the date that overpayment was made.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five (5) years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this subsection.
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent return
the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates gross
receipts, or omits an amount properly includable in gross receipts s, or both,
which understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) of the amount of gross receipts stated in the return, the additional tax
may be assessed at any time within six (6) years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional lax relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this subsection, or six (6) months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (4)   The times provided in this subsection may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this subsection,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing
the return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law
for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the federal
audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance may be
refunded or credited within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
113.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this subsection shall be extended
accordingly.
      (2)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to adjustments
resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a claim for
refund or credit within the time provided for in this subsection or six (6)
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section and division (A) of this section,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax laws or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information form the files and records of the
Kentucky Revenue Cabinet and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting gross receipts or compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.12 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
general revenue fund.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts may be subject to a
penalty equal to five percent (5%) of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
      (1)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
      (2)   Fails to pay the lax computed on the return or report on or before
the due date prescribed for payment.
      (3)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this subsection shall not
exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total tax due; however, the penalty
shall not be less than twenty-five dollars ($25).
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
113.05 may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than twenty-five dollars
($25).
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve
percent (12%) per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not
previously paid, from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the
city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
113.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A), (B),
(C), and (D) of this section by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this ordinance of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this ordinance, or by the rules of the city
or by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
113.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500) or
imprisoned for not longer than six (6) months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
113.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisoned for not more than one (1)
year, or both.
(Ord. 191-2004, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord. 269-2017, passed 3-14-17)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01    Definitions
Licenses
   
114.20
   Classification of licenses; fee schedule
   
114.21
   Form, content of city license
   
114.22
   Application; issuance
   
114.23
   Approval of application
   
114.24
   Denial of application
   
114.25
   Transfer of license
   
114.26
   Premises selling groceries, gasoline, and the like prohibited from obtaining
license
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
114.40
   Hours
   
114.41
   Compliance with regulations and prohibitions
   
114.42
   Maintenance of state license
   
114.43
   Display of required licenses and certain signs
   
114.44
   Criminal conduct on premises prohibited
   
114.45
   Conducting business with minor
   
114.46
   Illegal sexual conduct, exposure of human body
   
114.47
   Business to be conducted continuously; exception
Administration and Enforcement
   
114.60
   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
114.61
   Right of entry; search and seizure
   
114.62
   Suspension, revocation of license
 
   
114.99
   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A) As used herein the words and phrases defined in KRS 241.010 and 243.010
have the meanings indicated therein.
   (B) The following words and phrases have the meanings indicated:
      (1) "BOARD." The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board established
pursuant to KRS 241.030.
      (2) "CITY ADMINISTRATOR." The person appointed to the office of Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administration created and established by the city pursuant to
§
114.60.
      (3) "CITY LICENSE." A license established and authorized pursuant to the
terms hereof.
      (4) "CITY LICENSEE." A person who has been issued a city license pursuant
to the terms hereof.
      (5) "KRS." Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (6) "PERSON." Any natural person, corporation, partner-ship, joint
venture, or unincorporated association of persons or any combination thereof,
and the shareholders, officers, agents, servants, and employees thereof.
      (7) "PREMISES." The premises described in the city license issued
pursuant to the terms hereof and the application therefor.
      (8) "STATE." The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (9) "STATE LICENSE." A license authorized by KRS 243.030 to 243.680.
    (10) "TRAFFIC IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES." Any action, business, or transaction
in regard to the production, storage, transportation, distribution, sale,
delivery, and transfer of alcoholic beverages.
LICENSES
§ 114.20 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A) For the privilege of causing, permitting, and engaging in the actions,
business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses.
The actions, business, and transactions authorized and permitted thereby and
the expiration dates thereof shall be and are the same as those of the state
licenses to which the city licenses correspond and which are indicated and
described in KRS 243.030, KRS 243.040 and KRS 243.070. The fees for such city
licenses shall be the maximum allowed by law.
   (B) No person shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the actions,
business, or transactions authorized by such city and state licenses within the
city without both a valid city license and a valid state license therefor, as
indicated and described in KRS 243.030, KRS 243.040 and KRS 243.070.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 FORM, CONTENT OF CITY LICENSE.
   (A) The city licenses authorized and established hereby shall each be
evidenced by a document, the form and content of which shall be prescribed by
regulation of the City Administrator.
   (B) However, the documents must be of the same color and designation as
those of the state licenses to which the city licenses correspond and must:
      (1) Comply with all of the provisions for state licenses required by KRS
243.440; and
      (2) Contain a declaration that the license authorizes the search of the
licensed premises by any peace officer at any time for any purpose; the removal
therefrom of any evidence of any crime or other violation of any law; and the
use thereof in any trial or hearing in regard thereto.
§ 114.22 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   Subject to the limitations and restrictions described herein, city licenses
shall be originally issued by the City Clerk and renewed by him upon the
expiration thereof upon receipt of the following documents and fees more than
30 days prior to the effective date of an original license and more than l5
days prior to the expiration date of any license to be renewed:
   (A) A written application therefor with the truth of the information,
statements, and representations therein attested by the signature and the oath
or affirmation of the applicant. The form and content of such application shall
be prescribed by regulation of the City Administrator; however, provision for
the following information, statements, and representations shall and must be
included therein:
      (1) All information required by KRS 243.390 to be contained in the
application for state licenses.
      (2) A consent by the applicant to the search of the licensed premises by
any peace officer at any time for any purpose, the removal therefrom of any
evidence of any crime or other violation of any law; and the use thereof in any
trial or hearing in regard thereto.
      (3) The names, addresses, photographs, and fingerprints of the applicant
and all shareholders, officers, agents, servants, and employees thereof.
   (B) The approval of the applicant, the application, and the premises
described therein by the City Administrator.
   (C) Documentary evidence of a valid state license which corresponds to the
city license for which the application is being made.
   (D) The applicable fee, paid in cash or by certified or cashier’s check, for
the city license which is the subject of the application.
§ 114.23 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Within 30 days of the date of the application for an original city license
and l5 days of the date of an application for renewal of a city license, the
City Administrator shall, by mail or personal delivery thereof, notify the
applicant, in writing, of either the approval thereof or the disapproval
thereof and a hearing in regard thereto.
§ 114.24 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   As is similarly set forth in KRS 243.450, the City Administrator shall not
approve any application for a city license if:
   (A) The applicant, the application, or the premises described therein do not
fully comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws in regard to
alcoholic beverages;
   (B) The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or
employee thereof has caused, permitted, or engaged in any act for which the
revocation of a state or city license is authorized;
   (C) The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or
employee thereof had a state license or city license which was revoked within
two years of the date of the application, or the premises described therein
were the premises or any portion thereof described in a state license or city
license revoked during such time;
   (D) Any statement or representation in the application is false; or
   (E) In the exercise of sound discretion, the City Administrator determines
any cause or reason for refusing to approve an application reasonably related
to the purpose and objective of this chapter and the state laws and regulations
of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Among those factors that the
City Administrator shall consider in the exercise of his discretion are: public
sentiment in the area; number of licensed outlets in the area; potential for
future growth; type of area involved; type of transportation available; and
financial potential of the area.
§ 114.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall not assign or transfer any city license to any other
person or premises unless that person and/or premises complies with all of the
provisions of this chapter; the transfer of the license is approved by the City
Administrator; and the transfer of the state license to which the city license
corresponds is approved by the state. A transfer fee of $10 shall be paid to
the city for the transfer of the city license.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.26 PREMISES SELLING GROCERIES, GASOLINE, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED FROM
OBTAINING LICENSE.
   (A)   As prohibited in KRS 243.230, no city license shall be issued to sell
malt beverages at retail within or upon any premises from which gasoline and
lubricating oil are sold or from which the servicing and repair of motor
vehicles is conducted unless there is continuously maintained an inventory on
the premises for sale at retail of not less than $5,000 of food, groceries, and
related products valued at cost.
   (B)   No quota retail package license or quota retail drink license for the
sale of distilled spirits or wine shall be issued for any premises used as or
in connection with the operation of any business in which a substantial part of
the commercial transaction consists of selling at retail staple groceries or
gasoline and lubricating oil.
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 114.40 HOURS.
   (A) Pursuant to the authority of KRS 244.290 and KRS 244.480, the times and
hours during which distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages may be sold at
retail in the city are hereby established to be the hours after 6:00 a.m. and
before 2:30 a.m. prevailing time on any day except Sunday, and the hours after
1:00 p.m. and before 2:30 a.m. prevailing time on any Sunday. However, no
distilled spirits or wine or malt beverages shall be sold at retail in the city
during the hours the polls are open in the city on any election day.
   (B) During the hours before 6:00 a.m. and after 2:30 a.m. prevailing time on
any day except Sunday, and the hours after 2:30 a.m. and before 1:00 p.m.
prevailing time on any Sunday, and the hours when any polls are open in the
city on any election day, no person who has a valid city license for the sale
of distilled spirits or wine or malt beverages at retail shall cause, permit,
or engage in any of the actions, business, or transactions authorized and
permitted thereby. During such times, all persons who have such city licenses
shall cause the licensed premises to be closed and vacated by all persons
except the applicant and those persons identified on the application for such
city licenses or any supplements thereto as officers, agents, or employees of
the person to whom such city license was issued. All other persons shall vacate
the licensed premises and remove themselves therefrom during such times;
however, any person upon the premises who purchased any alcoholic beverages by
the drink from the licensee within 30 minutes prior to any such times may
remain upon the premises for a period not to exceed 30 minutes thereafter for
the sole purpose of the consumption of the drink purchased.
   (C) If a separate department of such licensed premises is maintained in a
manner previously approved in writing by the City Administrator as being
capable of being locked, closed off, and separated from the remainder of the
licensed premises and all distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages and all
fixtures and apparatus connected with the acts of business and transactions
authorized by the state licenses and city licenses for the retail sale of
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages from such premises are located
within such approved department, and such approved department is continuously
kept locked, physically separated, and closed off from the remainder of the
licensed premises during such times, the remainder of the licensed premises may
remain open and any lawful activity may be conducted thereon during such times.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.41 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A) At all times during which any person has a valid city license issued
pursuant to the provisions hereof, that person shall fully comply with all of
the rules, regulations, requirements, and prohibitions set forth in this
chapter.
   (B) A city licensee shall comply fully with all of the provisions hereof and
all of the rules and regulations of the City Administrator in regard thereto;
all provisions of the state statutes and the rules and regulations of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard to the licensed premises and the
actions, business, and transactions conducted thereon subsequent to the
issuance of a state license therefor and prior to the expiration, revocation,
or suspension thereof which are hereby incorporated herein and made applicable
to all city licenses corresponding thereto, the premises described therein, and
the actions, business, and transactions conducted thereon; and the city
licensee shall comply fully therewith.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.42 MAINTENANCE OF STATE LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall maintain the state license to which the city license
corresponds and fully comply with all state statutes and the rules and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard thereto.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.43 DISPLAY OF REQUIRED LICENSES AND CERTAIN SIGNS.
   As required by KRS 244.083, a city licensee who has a valid city retail
distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverage license shall cause to be displayed
in a conspicuous and prominent place on the licensed premises each of the
following documents so that they may be seen and observed by all persons
entering the licensed premises:
   (A)   A sign or placard at least eight inches by ll inches in size with the
following message printed or displayed thereon in 30 point or larger type:
      "Persons under the age of twenty-one (2l) years are subject to a fine up
to Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars if they:
         a.   Enter licensed premises to buy or have served or delivered to
them any alcoholic beverages; or
         b.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase any aloholic beverages;
or
         c.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages."
   (B)   All valid city licenses issued therefor and the state licenses to
which they correspond. The failure to so display such licenses shall be prima
facie evidence that no such valid licenses have been issued or exist and all
actions, business, and transactions authorized thereby conducted on such
premises are illegal and in violation of the provisions hereof and the state
statutes and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in
regard thereto.
Penalty, see §
114.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Display of state license required, see KRS 243.620 and 244.270
§ 114.44 CRIMINAL CONDUCT ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A city licensee shall not cause, permit, or engage in any conduct upon the
licensed premises by either the commission of a prohibited act or the omission
of a required act which is a crime or other violation of any law, rule, or
regulation of any governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof or any
officer or agency thereof.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.45 CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITH MINOR.
   As prohibited by KRS 244.080 and 244.085, no person shall cause, permit,
encourage, or engage in any of the following actions in the city:
   (A) The possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverages by any person
under 21 years of age in or upon any licensed premises or public places; and
   (B) The misrepresentation of the name, address, age, or other identification
of any person under 21 years of age for the purpose of obtaining alcoholic
beverages.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.46 ILLEGAL SEXUAL CONDUCT, EXPOSURE OF HUMAN BODY.
   No person shall cause, permit, encourage, or engage in any of the following
activities or display still or motion pictures thereof on licensed premises:
   (A) Sexual conduct as defined in KRS 531.010(9).
   (B) The appearance of any human being, clothed or unclothed, in such a
manner that any portion of the following body members are exposed to view:
      (1) The nipple of the female breast.
      (2) The female breast below the nipple.
      (3) The genitalia.
      (4) The pubic hair.
      (5) The anus.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.47 BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED CONTINUOUSLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A) A city licensee who has a valid city wholesale or retail distilled
spirits, wine, or malt beverage license must conduct the actions, business, and
transactions authorized thereby upon the licensed premises.
   (B) When no such actions, business, or transactions are conducted thereon
for a period of 90 consecutive calendar days, the city license therefor shall
become null and void and revoked by the City Administrator unless:
      (1) The city licensee is unable to continue in business at the premises
for which a license is issued due to an act of God; casualty; the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain; acquisition of any private corporation through its
power of eminent domain granted to it, whether such acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary; or loss of lease through failure of the landlord to renew the
existing lease; and
      (2) Prior to the discontinuance of business at the licensed premises or
immediately thereupon if such is due to an act of God, the city licensee
delivers to the City Administrator a written statement signed by the city
licensee and verified by the oath or affirmation thereof indicating the
discontinuance of business at the licensed premises for any of the causes or
reasons described herein.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 114.60 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   As required by KRS 24l.l60, the office of Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator is hereby established.
§ 114.61 RIGHT OF ENTRY; SEARCH AND SEIZURE.
   A city licensee shall permit the entry and search of the licensed premises
by any peace officer at any time for any purpose, and the seizure and removal
therefrom of any evidence of any crime or other violation of law and the use
thereof in any trial or hearing in regard thereto.
§ 114.62 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A) Pursuant to the procedure set forth in KRS 243.480 through 243.590, city
licenses may be either revoked or suspended by the City Administrator upon the
occurrence of:
      (1) Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other
alcoholic beverage control ordinance of the city;
      (2) Any violation of any provision of state law in regard to alcoholic
beverages or the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board in regard thereto; or
      (3) Any other cause, reason, or circumstance for which a state license
may be revoked or suspended by the Board.
   (B) However, city licenses must be revoked by the City Administrator upon
the occurrence of any cause or circumstance which requires revocation of state
licenses pursuant to KRS 243.500 or the revocation of a state license to which
a city license corresponds. Further, with the approval of the City
Administrator, a licensee may, as an alternative and in lieu of part or all of
the days of any suspension period, pay the following sums to the city as set
forth in KRS 243.480: distillers, rectifiers, vintners, brewers, and blenders:
$1000 per day; wholesale liquor licensees: $400 per day; wholesale beer
licensees: $100 per day; retail drink liquor licensees: $25 per day; retail
package liquor licensees: $25 per day; retail beer licensees: $10 per day; and
all remaining licensees: $10 per day.
   (C) The procedure for the revocation or suspension of a city license shall
consist of a written notice signed by the City Administrator and mailed to the
licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified mail, describing
the cause, circumstance, or occurrence and the time and date thereof for which
the city license may be revoked and indicating the time and place of a hearing
in regard thereto at least five days thereafter at which the licensee and the
representatives thereof shall be heard thereon. The hearing thereon shall be
conducted by the City Administrator in the city and according to the procedure
prescribed by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board for hearings by the
Board as supplemented by the regulations of the City Administrator. The City
Administrator shall control and make all decisions in regard to the
introduction of evidence and shall hear all arguments in regard thereto. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the City Administrator shall issue a written
decision in regard thereto and mail a certified copy thereof to the licensee at
the address of the licensed premises by certified or registered mail.
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, be sentenced to
pay a fine for each offense or violation of no more than $500.
   (B) Any person who violates the distillers license fee provision of §
114.20 shall, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 243.990(2), be
sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $200, or sentenced
to imprisonment for no more than six months, or both for the first offense. For
the second offense, the person shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$500, or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than six months, or both. On the
third and each subsequent offense, the person shall be sentenced to pay a fine
of not less than $500 nor more than $5,000, or sentenced to imprisonment for
not more than five years, or both.
   (C) Any person who violates any provision of §
114.20 other than as discussed in division (B) above, or any provision of §§
114.21 through
114.26,
114.40 through
114.42,
114.44, or
114.45(A) shall, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 243.990(l) and
244.990(l), be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200, or be imprisoned
for no more than six months, or both for the first offense. On the second and
each subsequent offense, the person shall be fined not less than $200 nor more
than $500, or be imprisoned for no more than six months, or both.
   (D) Any person who violates any provision of §
114.43 shall, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 244.990(5), be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $100.
   (E) Any person who violates any provision of §
114.45(B) shall, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 244.990(5) and (6),
be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for misrepresentation of age. For
use of a false, fraudulent, or altered identification card, paper, or other
document to purchase, attempt to purchase, or otherwise obtain any alcoholic
beverage, the person shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for a
first offense. For a second and each subsequent offense, the person shall be
fined not less than $200 nor more than $2,000.
CHAPTER 115: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
115.01 Definitions
   
115.02 Bond
   
115.03 Register to be kept; daily reports
   
115.04 Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
115.05 Maximum interest, resale price
   
115.06 Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
115.07 Prohibited activities
   
115.08 Enforcement
 
   
115.99 Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PAWNBROKER." Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 115.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 115.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The
register shall:
         (a)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
         (b)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
            1.   A driver’s license number;
            2.   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
            3.   If the identification specified in division (A(1)(b)1. or 2.
of this section is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
            of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or
sold;
         (c)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law
enforcement officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official
duty; and
         (d)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
paragraph, "full description" includes but is not limited to:
            1.   Make;
            2.   Model;
            3.   Color;
            4.   Size;
            5.   Manufacturer;
            6.   Vintage; and
            7.   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
      (2)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the
merchandise shall be held for a minimum of twelve (12) days before being
resold.
      (3)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the twenty-four (24) hours preceding each
report. The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The
Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
115.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
115.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
115.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase
price, the stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to
the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
CHAPTER 116: BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
116.01   Imposition of tax
   
116.02   Tax due
   
116.03   Lien
   
116.04   Use of tax
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all "financial institutions", as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
(Ord. 159-1996, passed 8-6-96)
§ 116.02 TAX DUE.
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a two percent (2%) discount by May 31, 1997, or without the
discount by June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a two percent (2%) discount by December 31 of each year, or without
the discount by January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 159-1996, passed 8-6-96)
§ 116.03 LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Ord. 159-1996, passed 8-6-96)
§ 116.04 USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 159-1996, passed 8-6-96)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid before
June 30, 1997, for the tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31,
for all subsequent year tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to a penalty of ten percent (10%) and shall bear interest at the rate
of twelve percent (12%) per annum.
(Ord. 159-1996, passed 8-6-96)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
         
131.   FAMILY OFFENSES
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
         
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
         
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
         
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
         
137.   SEXUAL OFFENSES
         
138.   INCHOATE OFFENSES
         
139.   GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
         
140.   JUVENILE CURFEW PROGRAM
         
141.   GRAFFITI
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION    PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                        KRS SECTION    PENALTY CLASS
ASSAULT                                    
   First degree             508.010     B felony
   Second degree            508.020     C felony
   Third degree             508.025     A or B misdemeanor or D felony
   Fourth degree            508.030     A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturban508.040     B misdemeanor or D felony
                                          
CRIMINAL ABUSE                             
   First degree             508.100     C felony
   Second degree            508.110     D felony
   Third degree             508.120     A misdemeanor
                                          
CRIMINAL COERCION              509.080     A misdemeanor
                                          
CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE         509.070     D felony
                                          
KIDNAPPING                     509.040     A or B felony; capital offense
                                          
MANSLAUGHTER                               
   First degree             507.030     B felony
   Second degree            507.040     C felony
                                          
MENACING                       508.050     B misdemeanor
                                          
MURDER                         507.020     Capital offense
                                          
RECKLESS HOMICIDE              507.050     D felony
                                          
STALKING                                   
   First degree             508.140     D felony
   Second degree            508.150     A misdemeanor
                                          
TERRORISTIC THREATENING        508.080     A misdemeanor
                                          
UNLAWFUL IMPRISONMENT                      
   First degree             509.020     D felony
   Second degree            509.030     A misdemeanor
                                          
WANTON ENDANGERMENT                        
   First degree             508.060     D felony
   Second degree            508.070     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 131: FAMILY OFFENSES
              
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                    KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
                                                      
BIGAMY                                     530.010     D felony
                                                      
CONCEALING BIRTH OF INFANT                 530.030     A misdemeanor
                                                      
INCEST                                     530.020     A, B, or C felony
                                                      
INCOMPETENT PERSON, ENDANGERING WELFARE OF 530.080     A misdemeanor
                                                      
MINORS                                                 
   Abandonment of                       530.040     D felony
   Endangering welfare of               530.060     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with                        
      First degree                   530.064     A, B, or C felony
      Second degree                  530.065     D felony
      Third degree                   530.070     A misdemeanor
                                                      
NONSUPPORT                                 530.050     A misdemeanor
                                                      
NONSUPPORT, FLAGRANT                       530.050     D felony
                                                      
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                             KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ARSON                                           
   Defrauding insurer            513.060     D felony
   First degree                  513.020     A felony
   Second degree                 513.030     B felony
   Third degree                  513.040     D felony
                                               
BURGLARY                                        
   First degree                  511.020     B felony
   Second degree                 511.030     C felony
   Third degree                  511.040     D felony
   Possession of burglar’s tool511.050     A misdemeanor
                                               
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF                               
   First degree                  512.020     D felony
   Second degree                 512.030     A misdemeanor
   Third degree                  512.040     B misdemeanor
                                               
CRIMINAL TRESPASS                               
   First degree                  511.060     A misdemeanor
   Second degree                 511.070     B misdemeanor
   Third degree                  511.080     Violation
                                               
FORGERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                    
   Criminal simulation           516.110     A misdemeanor
   Forgery                                   
      First degree            516.020     C felony
      Second degree           516.030     D felony
      Third degree            516.040     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged instrumen            
      First degree            516.050     C felony
      Second degree           516.060     D felony
      Third degree            516.070     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device  516.090     D felony
   Using slugs                               
      First degree            516.120     D felony
      Second degree           516.130     B misdemeanor
                                               
LITTERING, CRIMINAL                 512.070     A misdemeanor
                                               
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES                              
   Criminal possession of        512.060     B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of               512.050     B misdemeanor
                                               
POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS UNLAWFULLY   512.080     Violation
                                               
ROBBERY                                         
   First degree                  515.020     B felony
   Second degree                 515.030     C felony
                                               
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES                      
   Device for theft of telephone 514.065     A misdemeanor or D felony
services
   Obscuring identity of machine 514.120     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Possession of stolen mail     514.150     D felony
   Receiving stolen property     514.110     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft by deception            514.040     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft by extortion            514.080     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft by failure to make      514.070     A misdemeanor or D felony
disposition
   Theft by unlawful taking      514.030     A misdemeanor or A, B, C, or D
                                                felony
   Theft of labor                514.090     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft of mail matter          514.140     D felony
   Theft of property             514.050     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft of services             514.060     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Unauthorized use of vehicle   514.100     A misdemeanor or D felony
                                               
 
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
                                                       
PORNOGRAPHY                                             
   Advertising obscene material          531.050     B misdemeanor
   Distribution                                      
      Distribution of obscene matter  531.020     A or B misdemeanor
      Distribution to minor           531.030     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute      531.040     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance by min            
      Advertising material containing 531.360     A misdemeanor
      Distributing matter containing  531.340     D felony
      Promoting sale of matter contain531.350     A misdemeanor; C or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute such 531.370     C or D felony
matter
   Promoting sale of obscenity           531.060     A or B misdemeanor; D
                                                        felony
   Sexual performance by minor                       
      Promotion of                    531.320     A, B, or C felony
      Use of minor                    531.310     A, B, or C felony
                                                       
PROSTITUTION OFFENSES                                   
   Permitting prostitution               529.070     B misdemeanor
      Second degree                   529.040     D felony
   Prostitution                          529.020     B misdemeanor
                                                       
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                   KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
                                                     
CONSPIRACY TO PROMOTE GAMBLING            528.040     D felony
                                                     
HORSE RACES, MESSENGER BETTING PROHIBITED 528.110     A misdemeanor
                                                     
PARI-MUTUEL WAGERING                      558.l20     A misdemeanor
                                                     
PERMITTING GAMBLING                       528.070     B misdemeanor
                                                     
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE             528.080     A misdemeanor
                                                     
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING RECORDS                        
   First degree                        528.050     D felony
   Second degree                       528.060     A misdemeanor
                                                     
PROMOTING GAMBLING                                    
   First degree                        528.020     D felony
   Second degree                       528.030     A misdemeanor
                                                     
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
                                                       
BRIBERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                            
   Bribery of public servant             521.020     D felony
   Receiving unlawful compensation       521.040     A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensation      521.030     B misdemeanor
                                                       
ESCAPE AND RELATED OFFENSES                             
   Bail jumping                                      
      First degree                    520.070     D felony
      Second degree                   520.080     A misdemeanor
   Escape                                            
      First degree                    520.020     C felony
      Second degree                   520.030     D felony
      Third degree                    520.040     B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or apprehension             
      First degree                    520.120     D felony
      Second degree                   520.130     A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband                              
      First degree                    520.050     D felony
      Second degree                   520.060     A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest                      520.090     A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor vehicle 520.100     A misdemeanor
                                                       
JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION , INTERFERENCE WITH             
   Bribe receiving by juror              524.070     D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness            524.030     D felony
   Bribing a juror                       524.060     D felony
   Bribing a witness                     524.020     D felony
   Intimidating a judicial officer       524.120     D felony
   Intimidating a witness                524.040     D felony
   Jury tampering                        524.090     A misdemeanor
   Retaliating against a witness         524.055     D felony
   Simulating legal process              524.110     B misdemeanor
   Tampering with physical evidence      524.100     D felony
   Tampering with a witness              524.050     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful practice of law              524.130     B misdemeanor
                                                       
PERJURY AND RELATED OFFENSES                            
   False swearing                        523.040     B misdemeanor
   Perjury                                           
      First degree                    523.020     D felony
      Second degree                   523.030     A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to authorities  523.100     B misdemeanor
                                                          
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION , OBSTRUCTION OF                  
   Compounding a crime                   519.030     A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident         519.040     A misdemeanor
   Impersonating a public servant        519.050     A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental operations   519.020     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with public records         519.060     D felony
                                                       
PUBLIC OFFICE, ABUSE OF                                 
   Misuse of confidential information    522.040     D felony
   Official misconduct                               
      First degree                    522.020     A misdemeanor
      Second degree                   522.030     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
136.01   Discharging firearms
   
136.02   Statutory offenses
 
   
136.99
   Penalty
§ 136.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A) All persons not authorized by law are strictly prohibited from
discharging firearms within the city limits unless permission is first obtained
from the Police Chief and the firearm is discharged under his supervision or
under the supervision of his authorized representative.
   (B) "FIREARMS" shall include any pellet-propelling weapon such as B.B. guns,
pellet guns, or other types of air guns.
   (C) Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 435.220, permission is hereby granted
any person regularly engaged in the repair of firearms within the city
necessitating testing thereof, to discharge the same within the city limits,
provided that before so doing such person shall provide adequate safeguards and
a fully protected firing range, and provided further that noting herein shall
relieved such person from any liability other than as provided by KRS 435.220.
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.02 STATUTORY OFFENSES.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This section contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                  KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
                                                    
ABUSE OF CORPSE                          525.120     A misdemeanor
                                                    
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS                                   
   First degree                       525.125     D felony
   Second degree                      525.130     A misdemeanor
                                                    
DESECRATION OF VENERATED OBJECTS                     
   First degree                       525.105     D felony
   Second degree                      525.110     A misdemeanor
                                                    
DISORDERLY CONDUCT                       525.060     B misdemeanor
                                                    
DISRUPTING MEETINGS OR PROCESSIONS       525.150     B misdemeanor
                                                    
EAVESDROPPING AND RELATED OFFENSES                   
   Divulging illegally obtained       526.060     A misdemeanor
information
   Eavesdropping                      526.020     D felony
   Installing eavesdropping device    526.030     D felony
   Possessing eavesdropping device    526.040     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with private communicatio526.050     A misdemeanor
                                                    
FAILURE TO DISPERSE                      525.160     B misdemeanor
                                                    
HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS                 525.080     B misdemeanor
                                                    
HARASSMENT                               525.070     Violation
                                                    
INCITING TO RIOT                         525.040     A misdemeanor
                                                    
LOITERING                                525.090     Violation
                                                    
OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC PASSAGE    525.140     B misdemeanor
                                                    
PUBLIC INTOXICATION                      525.100     B misdemeanor
                                                    
RIOT                                                 
   First degree                       525.020     D felony
   Second degree                      525.030     A misdemeanor
                                                    
UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY                        525.050     B misdemeanor
                                                    
VIOLATING GRAVES                         525.115     A misdemeanor or D felony
 
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating §
136.01 shall have their weapon confiscated or be subject to confiscation and
fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
   (B) See
Chapter 139 for description of statutory penalties for those statutory offenses
listed in §
136.02 above.
CHAPTER 137: SEXUAL OFFENSES
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common sexual offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
                             
INDECENT EXPOSURE 510.150     B misdemeanor
                             
RAPE                          
   First degree510.040     A or B misdemeanor
   Second degre510.050     C felony
   Third degree510.060     D felony
                             
SEXUAL ABUSE                  
   First degree510.110     C or D felony
   Second degre510.120     A misdemeanor
   Third degree510.130     B misdemeanor
                             
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT 510.140     A misdemeanor
                             
SODOMY                        
   First degree510.070     A or B felony
   Second degre510.080     C felony
   Third degree510.090     D felony
   Fourth degre510.100     A misdemeanor
                             
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 138: INCHOATE OFFENSES
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common inchoate offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE               KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
                                 
CRIMINAL ATTEMPT      506.010     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
                                 
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY   506.040     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
                                 
CRIMINAL FACILITATION 506.080     A or B misdemeanor; D felony
                                 
CRIMINAL SOLICITATION 506.030     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
                                 
CRIMINAL SYNDICATE    506.120     B or C felony
                                 
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 139: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
EDITOR’S NOTE:
   This chapter is included for informational purposes only. The provisions of
this chapter are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Section
   
139.01   Fines for misdemeanors and violations
   
139.02   Sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
   
139.03   Fines for felonies
   
139.04   Sentence of imprisonment for felony
§ 139.01 FINES FOR MISDEMEANORS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A) Fines and imprisonment for misdemeanors shall not be mutually exclusive.
In any case where imprisonment is authorized a fine may be levied in addition
to the imprisonment or a fine may be levied as an alternative to imprisonment.
Similarly, a fine may be levied in lieu of imprisonment. Whether or not the
fine is to be levied as the sole penalty or as an additional or alternative
penalty shall be in the discretion of the judge or jury as the case may be. If
the trial is by jury then the jury shall have the discretion. This rule shall
apply in all cases where a fine is not the exclusive penalty authorized by law.
   (B) Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this title,
a person who has been convicted of any offense other than a felony may be
sentenced to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed:
      (1) For a Class A misdemeanor, $500; or
      (2) For a Class B misdemeanor, $250; or
      (3) For a violation, $250.
   (C) This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040)
§ 139.02 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall be a definite term and
shall be fixed within the following maximum limitations:
   (A) For a Class A misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 12 months; and
   (B) For a Class B misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
§ 139.03 FINES FOR FELONIES.
   (A) Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this title,
a person who has been convicted of any felony and granted a sentence of
probation or conditional discharge may be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount
not to exceed $l0,000 or double his gain from commission of the offense,
whichever is the greater.
   (B) In determining the amount and method of paying a fine for commission of
a felony, the court shall consider, among others, the following factors:
      (1) The defendant’s ability to pay the amount of the fine;
      (2) The hardship likely to be imposed on the defendant’s dependents by
the amount of the fine and the time and method of paying it;
      (3) The impact the amount of the fine will have on the defendant’s
ability to make reparation or restitution to the victim; and
      (4) The amount of the defendant’s gain, if any, derived from the
commission of the offense.
   (C) When a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies committed through
a single act and is sentenced to fines pursuant to division (A) above, the
aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed $l0,000 or double the amount of
the defendant’s gain from commission of the offenses, whichever is the greater.
   (D) This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.030)
§ 139.04 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR FELONY.
   (A) A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be an indeterminate
sentence, the maximum of which shall be fixed within the limits provided by
division (B) below, and subject to modification by the trial judge pursuant to
KRS 532.070. (KRS 532.060(1))
   (B) The authorized maximum terms of imprisonment for felonies are:
      (1) For a Class A felony, not less than 20 years nor more than fifty (50)
years, or life imprisonment;
      (2) For a Class B felony, not less than 10 years nor more than 20 years;
      (3) For a Class C felony, not less than 5 years nor more than 10 years;
and
      (4) For a Class D felony, not less than one year nor more than 5 years.
(KRS 532.060(2))
   (C) The actual time of release within the maximum established by division
(A) above, or as modified pursuant to KRS 532.070, shall be determined under
procedures established elsewhere by law.
(KRS 532.060(5))
CHAPTER 140: JUVENILE CURFEW PROGRAM
Section
   
140.01 Definitions
   
140.02 Hours of curfew
   
140.03 Exceptions
   
140.04 Enforcement
   
140.99 Penalty
§ 140.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this chapter, unless the context clearly
indicates or requires another meaning.
   "ALLOW." Either permit or neglect to prevent. It requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the minor violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable prudent parent or guardian
should have known the minor was violating this chapter.
   "MINOR." Any person under the age of 18, or as may be otherwise phrased, any
person of the age 17 or under.
   "PARENT." Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   As a person whom legal custody has been given by order of court.
   "REMAIN." To stay behind, tarry, linger, congregate, move about, wonder,
stroll, or stay unnecessarily upon or in any public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway.
(Ord. 199-2004, passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 204-2005, passed 12-6-05)
§ 140.02 HOURS OF CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway
within the city at night during the following periods:
      (1)   12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Saturday.
      (2)   12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Sunday.
      (3)   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Monday.
      (4)   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday.
      (5)   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday.
      (6)   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Thursday.
      (7)   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Friday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or guardian having legal custody
of a minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city under circumstances not
constituting an exception as enumerated in §
140.03 during the time periods contained in division (A).
(Ord. 199-2004, passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 204-2005, passed 12-6-05)
§ 140.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city during the nocturnal hours
provided in §
140.02(A) shall not be considered in violation of this chapter:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
   (C)   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in possession of such minor specifying when,
where, and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First Amendment
rights;
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor’s parent has
communicated to the division of police the facts establishing such reasonable
necessity;
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk contiguous to the place where such
minor resides, or on the sidewalk contiguous to a next-door neighbor who has
not communicated an objection to a police officer or the division of the
police;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer of
the division of police;
   (G)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Mayor in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway permitted, and the period
of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time of
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Mayor shall notify the division of police of said
information;
   (H)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of Kentucky
authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
   (I)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver;
   (J)   When the minor, who is duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within West Buechel for the purpose of passing
through, by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of
the city, including all minors that may also be within the vehicle; or
   (K) When the minor is married in accordance with law or had disability of
nonage removed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 199-2004, passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 204-2005, passed 12-6-05)
§ 140.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of a minor in or upon
any public assembly, building, place, street or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of §
140.04 may stop and question such minor and request such information as his and
her name and age and the name and address of his or her parent, guardian, or
person having legal custody.
   (B)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minors parent,
guardian, or person having legal custody.
   (C)   Any minor found in violation of §
140.02 shall be:
      (1)   Directed to proceed immediately to his or her home; or
      (2)   Under authority of KRS 630.030, may be taken into custody by any
peace officer:
      (3)   With permission of the minor’s parent, may be returned by the
police officer to said parent. Permission to return a minor subsequent to a
violation of any division of §
140.02 may be given telephonically to the police officer by a minor’s parent. A
parent may also grant prior permission to the West Buechel Police Department to
return that parent’s minor child or children to said parent, in the event said
minor child or children are found in violation of § 140.02, by providing
written authorization on a form to be provided by the Police Department. The
Police Department shall endeavor to make such authorization forms available to
all parents residing in the city.
(Ord. 199-2004, passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 204-2005, passed 12-6-05)
§ 140.99 PENALTY.
   Any parent, guardian, or person having legal custody of a minor to violate §
140.02(A) or (B) shall be subject to a fine of no more than five hundred
dollars ($500).
(Ord. 199-2004, passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 204-2005, passed 12-6-05)
CHAPTER 141: GRAFFITI
Section
   
141.01 Definitions
   
141.02 Restricted activity subject to civil penalties
   
141.03 Criminal penalties
   
141.04 Enforcement
   
141.05 Liens
§ 141.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "GRAFFITI." Drawings, inscriptions, or markings, of whatever kind,
character, or description made using aerosol spray paint, etching acid or other
etching materials, chalk, indelible markers or any other writing instrument on
a wall or other surface, placed there by a person or person(s) other than the
lawful owner or occupant of the property, without consent or acceptance of said
owner or occupant.
(Ord. 229-2010, passed 3-5-10)
§ 141.02 RESTRICTED ACTIVITY SUBJECT TO CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   No person shall place graffiti on a wall or other surface or deface
said surface with the intent of the writings or drawings being seen by the
public, without the express consent of the owner or occupant of the property.
   (B)   All sidewalks, walls, buildings, fences, signs and other structures or
surfaces shall be kept free from graffiti when the graffiti is visible from a
street or sidewalk or from any other public or private property.
   (C)   Removal of the graffiti by the property owner or other responsible
party must occur within ten working days of issuance of a notice of violation,
citation or order unless the cited individual has filed a notice of review
pursuant to §
141.04(B)(3), in which case removal activity is stayed until the review is
completed.
(Ord. 229-2010, passed 3-5-10)
§ 141.03 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Any person who creates graffiti or commits acts of criminal mischief as set
forth in KRS Chapter 512, is subject to being arrested and/or cited for such
activities in criminal court in addition to actions taken in civil court for
violations cited by the City of West Buechel, pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 229-2010, passed 3-5-10)
§ 141.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter will be enforced by the City of West Buechel
Code Enforcement Officer or any other law enforcement officer in accordance
with all laws, regulations and ordinances pertaining to public nuisances and/or
property maintenance. Criminal violations are punishable as set forth in KRS
chapter 512. Civil violations of this chapter are punishable as follows:
   (A)   A notice of violation, citation, or order will be issued to the owner
or other responsible party who has control of said property where graffiti is
observed. The notice shall identify the location of the graffiti and provide a
general description of the graffiti.
   (B)   (1)   Within seven calendar days of the issuance of a notice of
violation, citation or order, the property owner or responsible party must take
one of the following actions:
         (a)   Remove the graffiti;
         (b)   Contact the West Buechel City Hall and sign a waiver which will
authorize the city to have the graffiti removed and charge the cost of same to
the property owner/responsible party; or
         (c)   Dispute the notice of violation, citation or order by filing
with the City Clerk a written request for a review of the notice of violation
or citation.
      (2)   Upon receiving a notice of dispute and requesting a review of the
citation, the Mayor, in addition to being a member of the Hearing Board, shall
appoint two members of the Council and one member of the community at large,
and schedule an evidentiary hearing to hear evidence relating to the disputed
violation, citation or order. Following a final determination by the members of
the Hearing Board, a copy of the results will be mailed by Certified Mail,
Return Receipt Requested, to each person who contested and disputed the
violation/ citation, at the last known address provided. If the Review Board
rules in favor of the property owner/responsible party then the matter is
finished and no further action will be taken. If the Board upholds the notice
of violation or citation then the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D)
of this section apply.
   (C)   If the property owner/responsible party fails to remove the graffiti,
authorize the city to do so, or disputes the notice of violation or citation
and is ruled against by the Hearing Board, the city may proceed to remove the
graffiti and bill the owner/responsible party for the costs of doing so. If the
costs of removal are not paid within 60 days of the issuance of a bill by the
city to the responsible party, the city will proceed with legal action to
collect same plus any costs associated with collection and/or the city will
place a lien against the property as set forth in §
141.05.
   (D)   If the notice of violation, citation or order is not contested, or, if
the Board upholds the action taken, the city and any employee, agent or
contractor may then enter upon any parcel of real estate involved therein, and
cause the graffiti described in the notice of violation to be eliminated,
obliterated or otherwise removed with costs of same billed to the property
owner/responsible party.
(Ord. 229-2010, passed 3-5-10)
§ 141.05 LIENS.
   The city may place a lien upon any property for the reasonable costs and
expenses incurred by the city in the elimination, obliteration or removal of
graffiti upon which the owner/responsible party has been given notice pursuant
to §
141.04 and has failed to act. The lien along with the affidavit of the West
Buechel Code Enforcement Officer shall be recorded in the Office of the
Jefferson County Clerk. The owner(s) of the real estate subject to the lien
herein provided shall be personally liable, jointly and severally, if there is
more than one owner listed on the deed, for the amount of such lien, including
all interest (12% per annum thereafter until paid), civil penalties and other
charges, including reasonable attorney fees and court costs. The city may, in
its discretion, institute a civil lawsuit against the property owner(s) for the
collection of monies owed, with the same remedies provided for the recovery of
any debt owed.
(Ord. 229-2010, passed 3-5-10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS   
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; Standards of Safety
   
150.02   Enforcement of Standards of Safety
   
150.03   Moving buildings permit
   
150.04   Buildings to be connected to sewer system
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained
in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the
Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   (A)   As used in this section the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   "ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR." Any person who has been certified by the
Commissioner of Housing, Buildings, and Construction pursuant to KRS 227.489 as
an electrical inspector and has been designated by the City Council.
      (2)   "ELECTRICAL WIRING AND EQUIPMENT." All installations of electrical
conductors, fittings, devices, and fixtures within or on public and private
buildings within the city.
      (3)   "STANDARDS OF SAFETY." The Standards of Safety as adopted by the
city in §
150.01 above.
   (B)   No electrical wiring or equipment shall be installed within or in any
building or structure or premises within the city, nor shall any alteration or
addition be made in any such existing installations, without first securing a
permit from the Electrical Inspector.
   (C)   During the installation of electrical wiring and equipment the
Electrical Inspector shall make inspections to insure compliance with the
Standards of Safety. No work in connection with electrical wiring or equipment
shall be covered or concealed until it has been inspected and permission to
cover the work has been granted by the Electrical Inspector. On completion of
the work the Electrical Inspector shall inspect the work to ascertain
compliance with the Standards of Safety.
   (D)   No person shall use or permit the use of, or supply current for,
electrical wiring or equipment for heating, light, or power in any building or
structure or premises within the city unless a certificate of inspection
certifying that the electrical wiring and equipment complies with the Standards
of Safety has been issued by the Electrical Inspector.
   (E)   No permit or certificate shall be required for the execution and use
of the following classes of work:
      (1)   Minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the
connection of approved portable electrical devices to approved permanently
installed receptacles.
      (2)   The installation, alteration, or repair of electrical devices for
the operation of communications and signals or the transmission of intelligence
by wire by public service agencies.
      (3)   The installation, alteration, or repair of electrical equipment of
a power or public service company for its use in the generation, transmission,
distribution, or metering of electricity.
      (4)   The installation of any temporary system required for the testing
or servicing of electrical wiring or equipment.
      (5)   Any work begun before the enactment of this section.
(Ord. 92-71, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 MOVING BUILDINGS PERMIT.
   (A)   Before any building, house, garage, or structure of any kind is moved
or transported within the city whether on or off the streets, roads, and public
ways of the city, a permit must first be obtained from the City Clerk.
   (B)   All other necessary permits required by any federal, state or county
government or their agencies, shall be required for all the work in connection
with removal of buildings, houses, garages or structures of any kind, such as
the construction of a new foundation, electrical, plumbing, heating, sewer,
health, and the like, and also the same shall be required before placing the
buildings, houses, garages, or the structures of any kind in its completed
condition in its new location within the city.
   (C)   Before a permit is issued by the City Clerk, the Building Inspector or
the person or persons designated by the City Council, shall give his approval.
   (D)   The cost of a permit for the moving or transporting of buildings,
houses, garages, or structures of any kind within the city shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 49-79, passed 5-9-79) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 BUILDINGS TO BE CONNECTED TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   No new or other residential type of building shall be approved for a
building permit unless the building is connected to the sanitary sewer system
for the disposal of sewerage. Connection to a septic container is prohibited.
(Ord. 72-68, passed 3-14-68) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §§
150.01 or
150.02 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
offense. (KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment for not more than sixty
(60) days, or both for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or
both for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
150.03 shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment for no more
than fifty (50) days, or both.
(Ord. 49-79, passed 5-9-79)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
150.04 shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   151.01 Adoption of subdivision regulations by reference; compliance required
 
   151.99 Penalty
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A) In the interest of public welfare, improvement of property, and for the
desirable development and growth of the city, the City Council hereby adopts
the "Metropolitan Subdivision Regulations," as adopted by the Jefferson County
Fiscal Court and the Board of Aldermen of the City of Louisville, June 8, 1971,
together with amendments, alterations, or additions thereto. For all practical
purposes, these regulations shall be observed by all persons, firms,
corporations, and other legal entities concerned or affected.
   (B) No person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity shall undertake the
development of unimproved real estate, a subdivision development, or the
building of a street or an alley without first observing the standards set out
in the regulations, above identified, and obtaining the approval and a permit
for development, building, construction, or work from the City Council. All
necessary cost assumed by the City Council for technical or professional
services to properly inspect, examine, survey, or check in connection with a
request for approval or a permit under this section shall be charged to and
paid by the party or parties making application for same.
   (C) The City Council shall undertake injunctive proceedings whenever
necessary to enforce the observance of the regulations and the orders of the
City Council issued in pursuance of the enforcement of said regulations, if the
City Council finds that the penalties prescribed for violations of this section
are inadequate to cope with an unusual situation and the regulations are being
arbitrarily ignored and violated.
(Ord. 31-62, passed 1-31-62; Am. Ord. 90-71, passed 8-9-71)
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of a violation of §
151.01 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for
not more than 25 days, or both.
(Ord. 31-62, passed 1-31-62)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
   
II.   ANNEXATIONS
   
III.   BOND ISSUES
   
IV.   CONTRACTS
   
V.   FRANCHISES
   
VI.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
   
VII.   STREET CLOSINGS
   
VIII.   AD VALOREM TAXATION RATES
TABLE I. ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
                 Accepting the designation of the Jefferson County Fiscal Court
55-65    8-12-65 of Shepherdsville Road from Bashford Avenue to the Buechel By-
                 Pass as a part of the county through road system
                
 
TABLE II. ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Annexing to the city a certain area to the east of
33-62    3-7-62   Shepherdsville Road, north of Glengyle Avenue, including said
                  avenue, adjacent to a present eastern boundary line of the
                  city
                  Annexing to the city an area bounded on the east and north by
43-63    11-25-63 Shepherdsville Road, including said road, bounded on the west
                  by Manor Parkway, and bounded on the south by Glengyle Avenue
102-72   9-25-72  Annexing to the city an area contiguous to the incorporated
                  city beginning in the center line of Bashford Manor Lane
                  Annexing to the city a tract of land area beginning at the
104-72   11-27-72 intersection of the southeast side of Old Shepherdsville Road
                  and the northwest line of the Southern Railroad right-of-way
                  Annexing to the city a tract of land beginning at the point
72-81    8-6-81   of intersection of the southerly line of Bashford Manor Lane
                  and the easterly line of Newburg Road
                 
 
TABLE III. BOND ISSUES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date    Description
                 Relating to the issuance of $2,000,000 of revenue bonds for
1-54     3-1-54  the installation of water, sewer, drainage, and street
                 facilities
                 Relating to the issuance of $2,000,000 of revenue bonds for
1-55     1-10-55 the installation of water, sewer, drainage, and street
                 facilities
                 Authorizing the issuance and sale of $2,000,000 in revenue
2-55     1-10-55 bonds for the installation of water, sewer, drainage, and
                 street facilities
- -      - -     Authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds for Duff Truck Lines
                 Authorizing the issuance of educational and cultural
158-1996 7-2-96  development revenue bonds, series 1996 (Fifteen
                 Telecommunications, Incorporated Project)
                 Authorizing the issuance of up to $9,780,000 in industrial
246-2013 5-6-13  building revenue bonds, Series 2013 (St. James Group, Inc.
                 project)
                 Authorizing the issuance of variable rate demand industrial
263-2016 6-9-15  building revenue refunding bonds, Series 2016, in the
                 principal amount of $10,300,000 (Presbyterian Homes Obligated
                 Group)
                
 
TABLE IV. CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
59-66    10-13-66 Authorizing and approving a contract with the Metropolitan
                  Sewer Commission for the extension of a sewer pipe line
                  Authorizing a joint and cooperative program for self-
144-1993 6-22-93  insurance and authorizing the execution of an interlocal
                  agreement with the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
                  Association
                  Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing
241-2012 6-4-12   for the payment and security of the lease; creating a sinking
                  fund; and authorizing the execution of various documents
                  related to the lease
                 
 
TABLE V. FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No.      Date     Description
2-74          7-8-74   Creating an electric franchise
65-80         7-1-80   Creating a cable TV franchise
67-80         9-2-80   Granting a cable TV franchise to CPI of Louisville
Res. 75-88    7-5-88   Granting changes in ownership of a cable TV franchise
                       Approving the renewal and amendment of the franchise
102-1995      11-7-95  agreement for Community Antenna Television (CATV)
                       services of TKR Cable of Greater Louisville
274-2018      11-13-18 Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive
                       communications franchise
                       Repealing Ords. 254-2014 and 266-2016 and modifying
                       regulations to provide all communications service
282-2020      1-13-20  providers are treated equally and are subject to same
                       rights and obligations when operation in city rights-of-
                       way
Res. 2023 003 - -      Confirming the sale and awarding a non-exclusive 20-year
                       electric franchise to Louisville Gas & Electric Co.
Res. 2023 004 - -      Confirming the sale and awarding a non-exclusive 20-year
                       natural gas franchise to Louisville Gas & Electric Co.
308 2023      10-12-23 Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive 20-
                       year electric franchise
309 2023      10-12-23 Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive 20-
                       year natural gas franchise
                      
 
TABLE VI. REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Authorizing the purchase of lots 117, 118, and 119, block
                  735, parcel 56 on Ethel Avenue and lot 207, block 734, parcel
                  84 on Marvin Avenue. Purchase of the l967 state and county
75-68    6-27-68  delinquent tax bills on lot 116, block 735, parcel 55,
                  property of Maggie Head, and lots 127 and 128, block 734,
                  parcel 46, on St. Francis Avenue, property of Fred and M.
                  Doffel
80-68    11-l4-68 Purchasing lot 120 in section C in the Lincoln Terrace
                  Subdivision
84-69    8-11-69  Authorizing the sale of a certain parcel of unimproved and
                  unused real estate known as the stub end of Shelton Avenue
59-80    4-1-80   Authorizing the purchase of property located at 3705 Bashford
                  Avenue
6l-80    4-1-80   Authorizing the purchase of property located at 3707 - 3709
                  and 3701 Bashford Avenue
                  Authorizing the following properties to be offered for sale:
                  lot 120, block 735, at 3712 Ethel Avenue; lot 116, block 735,
62-80    4-1-80   at 37l6 Ethel Avenue; lots 117, 118, and 119, block 735, at
                  3714 Ethel Avenue; lots 15 and 16, block 735, at 3732 Marvin
                  Avenue; lots 108 and 109, block 735, at 3724 Ethel Avenue;
                  lots 127 and 128, block 734, at 3727 St. Francis Avenue
                  Authorizing the following properties to be offered for sale:
192-2004 4-6-04   lot 57, block 0735 at 3712 Ethel Avenue; lot 47, block 0735
                  at 3730 Ethel Avenue; lot 49, block 0735 at 3726 Ethel
                  Avenue; lot 50, block 0735 at 3724 Ethel Avenue
                 
 
TABLE VII: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
119-87   11-5-87 Closing a portion of Shepherdsville Court (formerly Glengyle
                 Avenue)
                
 
TABLE VIII: AD VALOREM TAXATION RATES
Ord. No. Date Type Rate
Ord. No.  Date     Type Rate
126-1989  8-1-89   Real .33 per $100
132-1990  6-5-90   Real .33 per $100
134-1991  6-12-91  Real .33 per $100
140-1992  6-2-92   Real .33 per $100
142-1993  6-10-93  Real .33 per $100
150A-1995 6-6-95   Real .33 per $100
156-1996  6-19-96  Real .33 per $100
164-1997  6-10-97  Real .33 per $100
172-1999  6-1-99   Real .33 per $100
176-2000  5-2-00   Real .33 per $100
181-2001  5-1-01   Real .30 per $100
188-2002  5-7-02   Real .028 per $100
195-2003  6-3-03   Real .028 per $100
197-2004  6-14-04  Real .028 per $100
201-2005  6-9-05   Real .028 per $100
210-2006  7-11-06  Real .028 per $100
213-2007  6-5-07   Real .028 per $100
219-2008  6-3-08   Real .028 per $100
226-2009  6-2-09   Real .028 per $100
228-2009  10-15-09 Real .28 per $100
231-2010  6-1-2010 Real .20 per $100
234-2011  6-1-2011 Real .20 per $100
240-2012  6-1-12   Real .20 per $100
244-2013  5- -13   Real .20 per $100
244-2013  7-11-14  Real .20 per $100
256-2014  - -      Real .20 per $100
276-2016  913-16   Real .20 per $100
270-2017  5-9-17   Real .20 per $100
280-2019  5-23-19  Real .213 per $100
285-2020  8-21-20  Real .213 per $100
293-2021  7-8-21   Real .210 per $100
298-2022  9-8-22   Real .183 per $100
306-2023  5-22-23  Real .189 per $100
311-2024  6-19-24  Real .196 per $100
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Sections
KRS Section             Code Sections
Section 43, Ky. Const.  Const.
                        32.48
                        31.01(A),
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.36,
                        36.23(F)
Section 246, Ky. Const. 31.02(A)
6.050                   32.48
6.955 - 6.975           33.04(C)
13A                     93.02
13B                     93.05
15.409                  34.12
18A.225                 112.10
Ch. 31                  34.12
41.240(4)               33.05
42.450 – 42.495       33.04
Ch. 45A                 34.12
Ch. 56                  34.12
Ch. 61                  32.22
61.168                  34.12
61.169                  34.12
61.805 – 61.850       34A.10
61.805(1)               34A.01
61.805(2)               34A.01
61.805(3)               34A.01
61.805(4)               34A.01
61.805(5)               34A.01
61.810                  34A.05
61.815                  34A.06
61.820                  34A.07
61.823                  34A.08
61.823 (2) - (4)        91.15
61.823(4)               34A.09
61.826                  34A.09
61.840                  34A.09
                        34.01,
61.870 – 61.884       34.05,
                        36.54
61.870                  34.01
61.870(10)(a) - (f)     34.05
61.872(1)               34.05
61.872(2)               34.05
61.872(3)               34.05
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.07
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(1)               34.05
61.874(2)(b)            34.05
61.874(4)               34.05
61.874(5)               34.05
61.874(6)               34.05
61.876                  34.05
61.876(4)               34.05
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.12
61.878(1)(m)            34A.05
61.880                  34.09
61.880 – 61.882       34.09
61.880(1)               34.09
61.880(1)(b)            34.09
61.880(1)(h)            34.09
61.880(1)(j)            34.09
61.882                  34.09
61.884                  34.11
Ch. 62                  31.01(B)
Ch. 65                  31.01(A)
65.120                  Ch. 72
65.140                  33.25
65.8801 – 65.8839     92.04
65.8840                 92.04
65.8840(1)(b)           92.01
65.8840(1)(h)           92.01
65.8840(1)(j)           92.01
Ch. 83A                 31.20(A)
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.010(9)              10.02
83A.010(10)             10.02
83A.010(11)             10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02(B)
83A.040(1), (2), (5)    31.21
83A.040(2)(c)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21,
                        32.01
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(6)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(7),(8)          31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.045(2)(b)           31.20(A)
83A.045(2)(b)1.         31.20(A)(2)
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4),(7)          32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             Adopting Ordinance
83A.060(12),(13)        32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 10.02
83A.070                 31.03
83A.075                 31.03
83A.080                 31.36,
                        31.45
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.04,
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.085(3)              31.36
83A.130                 31.21,
                        31.36
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02(A)
83A.130(3)              31.21
83A.130(4)              31.21
83A.130(5)              32.20
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(7)              31.21
83A.130(8)              31.21
83A.130(9)              31.21
83A.130(10)             31.21
83A.130(11)             32.03(A),
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             31.45,
                        32.03(B), (C)
83A.130(13)             32.03(D)
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010(6), (7)         33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.040(1)              33.04
91A.040(3)              33.04
91A.040(6)              33.04
91A.040(7)              33.04
91A.040(8)              33.04
91A.040(9)              33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080                 Ch. 112
91A.080(7)              112.09
91A.200                 33.11(A)
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
Chs. 116-121            31.20(A)
Ch. 118                 31.20(A)
131.010(6)              112.09
132.285                 35.01
132.420                 35.03(A)
Ch. 136                 116.01
136.120                 113.03
137.010 (Repealed)      110.02(E)
Ch. 154                 34.12
174.100(1)              91.15
174.100(2), (3)         91.16
174.100(4)              91.18
174.100(5)              91.19
174.100(6)              91.20
189.010(19)             70.01
189.338                 70.15
                        70.01,
189.378                 71.30,
                        71.99
189.394                 71.05,
                        Ch. 74, Sch. I
189.450(1)              71.01(D)
189.450(5)              72.03
189.456(7)              72.47
189.580                 70.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to 3. 34.01
189.700                 71.40
189.910                 71.30(A)(1), (C)(2)
189.920                 71.30(F)
189.990(1)              71.01(D)
189.990(2)              Ch. 74, Sch. II
190.010(6)              92.04
190.010(8)              92.04
190.010(11)             92.04
196.099                 34.01
198B.990(1)             150.99(A)(1)
226.010                 115.01
226.020                 115.02
226.030                 115.07
226.040                 115.03(A)
226.050                 115.04
226.060                 115.08
226.070                 115.03(B)
226.080                 115.05
226.090                 115.06
226.100                 115.08
226.990(1)              115.99
227.489                 150.02(A)
227.550                 92.04
227.700                 93.01(A)
227.702                 93.01(B), (F)
227.704                 93.01(C)
227.706                 93.01(D)
227.708                 93.01(E)
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.02
227.720                 93.03
227.730                 93.04
227.750                 93.05
227.990(1)              150.99(A)(2)
227.990(4)              93.99(A)
241.010                 114.01
241.030                 114.01
241.160                 114.60
243                     113.03
243.010                 114.01
243.030                 114.20
243.030 – 243.680     114.01
243.040                 114.20
243.070                 114.20
243.230                 114.26
243.390                 114.22
243.440                 114.21
243.450                 114.24
243.480                 114.62
243.480 - 243.590       114.62(A), (B)
243.500                 114.62
243.620                 114.43
243.990(1)              114.99(C)
243.990(2)              114.99(B)
244.080                 114.45
244.083                 114.43
244.085                 114.45
244.270                 114.43
244.290                 114.40(A)
244.480                 114.40(A)
244.990(1)              114.99(C)
244.990(5)              114.99(D), (E)
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
281.010                 92.04
304.178-005             112.10
318.990                 150.99(A)(3)
355.1-107               10.01
Ch. 424                 32.43(A),
                        33.04
                       33.15
424.120                 33.04
424.220                 33.04
424.220(6)(b)           33.04
435.220                 136.01(C)
436.600                 90.04
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03(A)
446.020(2)              10.03(B)
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03(C)
446.080(3)              10.03(D)
446.080(4)              10.03(E)
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
506.010                 Ch. 138
506.030                 Ch. 138
506.040                 Ch. 138
506.080                 Ch. 138
506.120                 Ch. 138
507.020                 Ch. 130
507.030                 Ch. 130
507.040                 Ch. 130
507.050                 Ch. 130
508.010                 Ch. 130
508.020                 Ch. 130
508.025                 Ch. 130
508.030                 Ch. 130
508.040                 Ch. 130
508.050                 Ch. 130
508.060                 Ch. 130
508.070                 Ch. 130
508.080                 Ch. 130
508.100                 Ch. 130
508.110                 Ch. 130
508.120                 Ch. 130
509.020                 Ch. 130
509.030                 Ch. 130
509.040                 Ch. 130
509.070                 Ch. 130
509.080                 Ch. 130
510.040                 Ch. 137
510.050                 Ch. 137
510.060                 Ch. 137
510.070                 Ch. 137
510.080                 Ch. 137
510.090                 Ch. 137
510.100                 Ch. 137
510.110                 Ch. 137
510.120                 Ch. 137
510.130                 Ch. 137
510.140                 Ch. 137
510.150                 Ch. 137
511.020                 Ch. 132
511.030                 Ch. 132
511.040                 Ch. 132
511.050                 Ch. 132
511.060                 Ch. 132
511.070                 Ch. 132
511.080                 Ch. 132
512.020                 Ch. 132
512.030                 Ch. 132
512.040                 Ch. 132
512.050                 Ch. 132
512.060                 Ch. 132
512.070                 Ch. 132
512.080                 Ch. 132
513.020                 Ch. 132
513.030                 Ch. 132
513.040                 Ch. 132
513.060                 Ch. 132
514.030                 Ch. 132
514.040                 Ch. 132
514.050                 Ch. 132
514.060                 Ch. 132
514.065                 Ch. 132
514.070                 Ch. 132
514.080                 Ch. 132
514.090                 Ch. 132
514.100                 Ch. 132
514.110                 Ch. 132
514.120                 Ch. 132
514.140                 Ch. 132
514.150                 Ch. 132
515.020                 Ch. 132
515.030                 Ch. 132
516.020                 Ch. 132
516.030                 Ch. 132
516.040                 Ch. 132
516.050                 Ch. 132
516.060                 Ch. 132
516.070                 Ch. 132
516.090                 Ch. 132
516.110                 Ch. 132
516.120                 Ch. 132
516.130                 Ch. 132
519.020                 Ch. 135
519.030                 Ch. 135
519.040                 Ch. 135
519.050                 Ch. 135
519.060                 Ch. 135
520.010                 34.01
520.020                 Ch. 135
520.030                 Ch. 135
520.040                 Ch. 135
520.050                 Ch. 135
520.060                 Ch. 135
520.070                 Ch. 135
520.080                 Ch. 135
520.090                 Ch. 135
520.100                 Ch. 135
520.120                 Ch. 135
520.130                 Ch. 135
521.020                 Ch. 135
521.030                 Ch. 135
521.040                 Ch. 135
522.020                 Ch. 135
522.030                 Ch. 135
522.040                 Ch. 135
523.020                 Ch. 135
523.030                 Ch. 135
523.040                 Ch. 135
523.100                 Ch. 135
524.020                 Ch. 135
524.030                 Ch. 135
524.040                 Ch. 135
524.050                 Ch. 135
524.060                 Ch. 135
524.070                 Ch. 135
524.090                 Ch. 135
524.100                 Ch. 135
524.110                 Ch. 135
524.130                 Ch. 135
525.020                 136.02
525.030                 136.02
525.040                 136.02
525.050                 136.02
525.055                 Ch. 135
525.060                 136.02
525.070                 136.02
525.080                 136.02
525.090                 136.02
525.100                 136.02
525.105                 136.02
525.110                 136.02
525.120                 136.02
525.125                 90.03,
                        136.02
525.130                 90.03,
                        136.02
525.140                 136.02
525.150                 136.02
525.160                 136.02
526.020                 136.02
526.030                 136.02
526.040                 136.02
526.050                 136.02
528.020                 136.02
528.030                 Ch. 134
528.040                 Ch. 134
528.050                 Ch. 134
528.060                 Ch. 134
528.070                 Ch. 134
528.080                 Ch. 134
528.110                 Ch. 134
528.120                 Ch. 133
529.020                 Ch. 133
529.040                 Ch. 133
529.070                 Ch. 133
529.080                 Ch. 131
530.010                 Ch. 131
530.020                 Ch. 131
530.030                 Ch. 131
530.040                 Ch. 131
530.050                 Ch. 131
530.060                 Ch. 131
530.064                 Ch. 131
530.065                 Ch. 131
530.070                 Ch. 131
530.080                 Ch. 131
531.010(5)              114.46
531.020                 Ch. 133
531.030                 Ch. 133
531.040                 Ch. 133
531.050                 Ch. 133
531.060                 Ch. 133
531.310                 Ch. 133
531.320                 Ch. 133
531.340                 Ch. 133
531.350                 Ch. 133
531.360                 Ch. 133
531.370                 Ch. 133
532.060(1)              139.04
532.060(2)              139.04
532.060(5)              139.04
532.070                 139.04
532.090                 139.02
532.090(1)              10.02
534.030                 139.03
534.040                 139.01
534.040(2)(c)           10.02
630.030                 140.04
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE CODE SECTION
ORD. NO. DATE     CODE SECTION
1-54     3-1-54   T.S.O. III
1-55     1-10-55  T.S.O. III
2-55     1-10-55  T.S.O. III
17-60    12-7-60  93.30
31-62    1-31-62  Ch. 151
33-62    3-7-62   T.S.O. II
43-63    11-25-63 T.S.O. II
49-64    12-14-64 91.45 –
                  91.49
52-65    3-11-65  94.06
55-65    8-12-65  T.S.O. I
59-66    10-13-66 T.S.O. IV
66-67    9-18-64  93.20,
                  93.99
72-68    3-14-68  150.04
75-68    6-27-68  T.S.O. VI
79-68    6-27-68  72.13
80-68    11-14-68 T.S.O. VI
84-69    8-11-69  T.S.O. VI
90-71    8-9-71   151.01
92-71    10-11-71 150.02
102-72   9-25-72  T.S.O. II
104-72   11-27-72 T.S.O. II
1-74     1-14-74  33.06
2-74     7-8-74   T.S.O. V
16-75    9-2-75   32.21(A)
27-77    2-1-77   Ch. 50
37-77    12-6-77  71.05,
                  Ch. 74, Sch. I
38-77    12-6-77  71.01(D)
42-78    3-7-78   50.10
49-79    5-9-79   150.03,
                  150.99
                  72.35,
54-79    10-2-79  72.45 –
                  72.49
59-80    4-1-80   T.S.O. VI
61-80    4-1-80   T.S.O. VI
62-80    4-1-80   T.S.O. VI
65-80    7-1-80   T.S.O. V
67-80    9-2-80   T.S.O. V
72-81    8-6-81   T.S.O. II
75-82    4-6-82   Repealed
77-82    5-4-82   Ch. 36
86-83    2-1-83   Repealed
87-83    3-2-83   110.01,
                  110.02
91-83    9-15-83  Ch. 75, Sch. I
93-84    5-1-84   110.02
95-84    7-3-84   31.45
97-84    7-5-84   Repealed
98-84    8-7-84   72.12
101-84   12-4-84  Ch. 74, Sch. II
                  110.01,
105-84   5-7-85   110.02,
                  110.99
108-85   9-11-85  Ch. 35
75-86    6-4-86   31.36
111-86   5-6-86   Repealed
32.45-86 9-2-86   Adopting Ordinance
98-87    10-7-87  72.12
116-87   5-5-87   T.S.O. IV
117-87   6-2-87   T.S.O. IV
119-87   11-5-87  T.S.O. VII
92-88    10-5-88  92.03
122      1-4-89   31.20(A)
                 
 
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTI ON CODE SECTION
ORD. NO.   DATE     DESCRIPTI ON                             CODE SECTION
120-1988   00-00-88 Adopting Budget for Fiscal Year 1988-89  Not included
123-1989   03-07-89 Adopting Code Supplement Ordinance       Adopting Ordinance
124-1989   00-00-89 Annual Budget for Fiscal Year 1989-90    Not Included
125-1989   07-06-89 Personnel Po1icies by Reference          37.01
126-1989   08-01-89 Ad Valorem Taxation Rate                 T.S.O. VIII
127-1989   12-28-89 Adopting Personnel Policies and          37.01
                    Repealing Ord. No. 125-1989
128-1991   04-02-91 Amending Ch. 90 relating to Animals      90.07,
                                                             90.99(D)
129-1992   01-07-92 Amending Personnel Policies              37.01
130                                                        No Ordinance
131-1990   04-04-90 Amended Budget for Fiscal Year 1989-90   Not Included
132-1990   06-05-90 Ad Valorem Taxation                      T.S.O. VIII
133-1990   06-19-90 Adopting Budget for Fiscal Year 1990-    Not Included
                    1991
134-1991   06-12-91 Ad Valorem Taxation                      T.S.O. VIII
135-1991   06-12-91 Adopting Budget for Fiscal Year 1991-    Not Included
                    1992
136                                                        No Ordinance
137-1992   01-28-92 Amending Budget for Fiscal Year 1991-    Not Included
                    1992
138                                                        No Ordinance
139                                                        No Ordinance
140-1992   06-02-92 Ad Valorem Taxation Rate                 T.S.O. VIII
141-1992   00-00-92 Annual Budget                            Not Included
142-1993   06-10-93 Ad Valorem Taxation Rate                 T.S.O. VIII
142-1-1993 05-04-93 Amending Personnel Policies              37.01
143-1993   06-10-93 Annual Budget                            Not Included
144-1993   06-22-93 Authorizing Agreement with KMRMA for     T.S.O. IV
                    Self-Insurance
                    Relating to the installation of culverts
145-1993   11-4-93  and the issuance of permits for any      Ch. 51
                    matter related to drainage on public
                    ways
146-1993   12-7-93  Providing for compensation for elected   31.21(E),
                    officials                                32.01(C)
146-1-1994 5-3-94   Adopting a Supplement to the Code of     Front
                    Ordinances
                    Relating to licensing of business
147-1994   6-1-94   business, establishments, trades,        110.01,
                    occupations, services and professions,   110.02
                    outdoor advertising
148-1994   6-14-94  Adopting annual budget for FY 94-95      Not Incuded
149-1994   10-6-94  Illegal parking                          Ch. 75, Sched. I
150-1994   12-6-94  Code of Ethics                           Ch. 38
150A-1995  6-6-95   Ad valorem taxation                      T.S.O. VIII
151-1995   6-8-95   Adopting annual budget for FY 95-96      Not Incuded
151A-1995  8-1-95   Amending annual budget for               Not Incuded
                    Approving renewal and amendment of
152-1995   12-7-95  franchise agreement with TKR Cable of    T.S.O. V
                    Greater Louisville
153-1995   12-7-95  Business licenses                        110.01,
                                                             110.02
154-1995   12-7-95  Assessing a charge for vehicles towed    Repealed
                    and/or impounded
156-1996   6-19-96  Levying ad valorem tax FY 96-97          T.S.O. VIII
156A-1995  2-4-97   Amending annual budget for FY 95-96      Not Included
157-1996   6-19-96  Adopting annual budget for FY 96-97      Not Included
158-1996   7-2-96   Authorizing issuance of educational and  T.S.O. III
                    cultural development revenue bonds 
159-1996   8-6-96   Imposing a bank franchise and local      Ch. 116
                    deposit tax
160-1996   1-7-97   Amending Code of Ethics contents of      38.24
                    financial interests statement
161-1997   4-1-97   Setting the salaries of city officials   31.21(E),
                                                             32.01(C)
162-1997   5-6-97   Amending insurance license fees          Repealed
163-1997   5-6-97   Amending business licenses               Ch. 110
164-1997   6-10-97  Levying ad valorem tax FY 97-98          T.S.O. VIII
165-1997   6-10-97  Adopting annual budget for FY 97-98      Not Included
166-1998   4-28-98  Setting the salaries of city officials   31.21(E),
                                                             32.01(C)
167-1999   3-2-99   Establishing the position of code        31.46
                    enforcement officer
168-1999   4-6-99   Regarding parking of tractor-trailers    72.13
                    and house trailers
169-1999   5-11-92  Regarding parking in front yards         72.12
171-1999   5-11-99  Amending business license fees           Ch. 110
172-1999   6-1-99   Levying ad valorem tax FY 99-00          T.S.O. VIII
173-1999   6-1-99   Adopting annual budget for FY 99-00      Not Included
174-1999   - -      Proposing projects from municipal aid    Not Included
                    program public use hearing
175-1999   6-1-99   Correcting KRS # on Ord. 159-1996        116.01
176-2000   5-2-00   Levying ad valorem tax FY 00-01          T.S.O. VIII
177-2000   5-2-00   Adopting annual budget for FY 00-01      Not Included
178-2000   5-2-00   Proposing projects from municipal aid    Not Included
                    program pub1ic use hearing
179-2000   12-5-00  Creating a code enforcement board        Repealed
181-2001   5-1-01   Levying ad valorem tax FY 01-02          T.S.O. VIII
182-2001   6-14-01  Proposing projects from municipal aid    Not Included
                    program public use hearing
183-2001   6-14-01  Adopting annua1 budget for FY 01-02      Not Included
186-2002   3-5-02   Adopting the 2001 S-5 Supplement to the  Front
                    Code of Ordinances
187-2002   4-2-02   Setting compensation for city officials  31.21,
                                                             32.01
188-2002   5-7-02   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2002-2003        T.S.O. VIII
189-2002   5-7-02   Adopting annual budget for FY 02-03      Not Included
190-2002   5-7-02   Municipal aid program funding            Not Included
191-2002   5-8-02   Controlling traffic on certain streets   Repealed
- -        5-15-02  Amending Ord. 191 regarding traffic on   Repealed
                    certain streets
- -        1-8-03   Repealing Ord. 191 and amending Ord.     Repealing Ord. 190
                    regarding traffic on certain streets
193-2003   3-4-03   Establishing the position of City        31.47
                    Administrative Officer
194-2003   6-3-03   Adopting annual budget for FY 03-04      Not Included
195-2003   6-3-03   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2003-2004        T.S.O. VIII
                                                             113.01 -
191-2004   4-6-04   Occupational license Tax                 113.12,
                                                             113.99
192-2004   4-6-04   Offering unimproved lots for sale        T.S.O. VI
197-2004   6-14-04  Ad valorem taxes for FY 2004-2005        T.S.O. VIII
                                                             140.01 -
199-2004   4-12-05  Establishing the Juvenile Curfew Program 140.03,
                                                             140.99
201-2005   6-9-05   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2005-2006        T.S.O. VIII
203-2005   7-5-05   Approving a lease                        Not Included
                                                             140.01 -
205-2005   12-6-05  Curfew program                           140.04,
                                                             140.99
209-2006   8-1-06   Adopting annual budget for FY 2006- 2007 Not Included
209A-2006  8-1-06   Amending annual budget for FY 2006- 2007 Not Included
210-2006   7-11-06  Ad valorem taxes for FY 2006-2007        T.S.O. VIII
211-2007   2-6-07   City Attorney                            31.45
212-2007   6-5-07   Adopting annual budget for FY 2007-2008  Not Included
213-2007   6-5-07   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2007-2008        T.S.O. VIII
214-2007   6-5-07   Municipal aid program funding            Not Included
                                                              
215-2007   7-3-07   Adding operating polices and procedures  33.25 -
                                                             33.31
217-2008   6-3-08   Amending annual budget for FY 2007- 2008 Not Included
218-2008   6-13-08  Adopting annual budget for FY 2008- 2009 Not Included
219-2008   6-3-08   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2008-2009        Not Included
220-2008   6-3-08   Municipal aid program funding            Not Included
221-2008   6-3-08   Parking regulations                      72.03,
                                                             72.04
222-2009   2-3-09   Amending personnel policies for full     37.01
                    time employees
224-2009   6-30-09  Adopting annual budget for FY 2009- 2010 Not Included
224A-2009  6-2-09   Municipal aid program funding            Not Included
225-2009           Occupational license tax                 113.02,
                                                             113.03
226-2009   6-2-09   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2009-2010        T.S.O. VIII
227-2009           Occupational license tax                 113.02,
                                                             113.03
228-2009   10-15-09 Ad valorem taxes for FY 2009-2010        T.S.O. VIII
229-2010   3-5-10   Graffiti                                 141.01 -
                                                             141.05
230-2010   6-1-10   Adopting annual budget for FY 2010-2011  Not Included
231-2010   6-1-2010 Ad valorem taxes for FY 2010-2011        T.S.O. VIII
232-2010   2-1-11   Police Department                        36.01 -
                                                             36.05
                                                             90.15 -
233-2011   2-1-11   Control of dogs                          90.22,
                                                             90.99
234-2011   6-1-2011 Ad valorem taxes for FY 2011-2012        T.S.O. VIII
235-2011   6-7-2011 Adopting annual budget for FY 2011-2012  Not Included
237-2011   6-21-11  Occupational license tax                 113.02
238-2011   11-1-11  Business license fee                     110.02
239-2012   - -      Adopting annual budget for FY 2012-2013  Not Included
240-2012   6-1-12   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2012-2013        T.S.O. VIII
241-2012   6-4-12   Approving a lease for the financing of a T.S.O. IV
                    project
242-2013   4-2-13   Amending council meetings time and date  32.21
243-2013   6-4-13   Adopting annual budget for FY 2013-2014  Not Included
244-2013   5- -13   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2013-2014        T.S.O. VIII
244-2013   7-11-14  Ad valorem taxes for FY 2014-2015        T.S.O. VIII
245-2013   - -      Amending personnel policies and          37.01
                    procedures regarding sick leave
246-2013   5-6-13   Authorizing issuance of industrial       T.S.O. III
                    building revenue bonds
247-2013   - -      Amending occupational license tax        113.02
                    regulations
248-2013   8-13-13  Amending business licenses fee schedule  110.02
250-2013   11-12-13 Amending personnel policies              37.01
251-2014   3-11-14  Amending parking regulations for aged    72.47, 72.99
                    and disabled
252-2014   - -      Amending net profit license tax          113.03
                    regulations
254-2014   - -      Approving extension of a CATV franchise  Repealed
                    agreement
255-2014   - -      Adopting annual budget for FY 2014-2015  Not Included
256-2014   - -      Ad valorem taxes for FY 2013-2014        T.S.O. VIII
260-2015   2-10-15  Travel reimbursement for elected         33.26
                    officials
261-2015   4-14-15  Naming a city attorney                   Not Included
262-2015   - -      Adopting annual budget for FY 2015-2016  Not Included
263-2016   6-9-15   Authorizing issuance of bonds            T.S.O. III
265-2016   7-12-16  Establishing a code of ethical conduct   38.01
266-2016   7-12-16  Granting a communicati ons franchise     Repealed
267-2016   9-13-16  Ad valorem taxes for FY 2016-2017        T.S.O. VIII
268-2016   10-11-16 Amending stopping and/or parking         72.03
                    regulations
                                                             113.01 -
                    Amending occupational license tax        113.03,
269-2017   3-14-17  regulations                              113.05 -
                                                             113.12,
                                                             113.99
270-2017   5-9-17   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2017-2018        T.S.O. VIII
271-2017   5-9-17   Setting compensation for members of the  38.01
                    Board of Ethics
272-2017   6-26-17  Adopting annual budget for FY 2017-2018  Not Included
274-2018   11-13-18 Creating for bid a non-exclusive         T.S.O. V
                    communications franchise
275-2019   3-14-19  Council meetings time                    32.21
276-2019   3-14-19  Insurance companies license fees         Repealed
277-2019   5-22-19  Repealing all prior city personnel       37.01
                    policies
278-2019   8-14-19  Adopting the Supplement to the Code of   Front
                    Ordinances
279-2019   5-23-19  Adopting annual budget for FY 2019-2020  Not Included
280-2019   5-23-19  Ad valorem tax assessment                35.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VIII
281-2019   9-12-19  Repealing Ord. 179, 2000                 Repealing Ord. 179
282-2020   1-13-20  Proving for equal treatment of           T.S.O. V
                    communications service providers
283-2020   6-12-20  Amending annual budget for FY 2019- 2020 Not Included
284-2020   6-12-20  Adopting annual budget for FY 2020-2021  Not Included
285-2020   8-21-20  Ad valorem taxes for FY 2020-2021        35.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VIII
286-2020   12-22-20 Insurance companies license fees         Repealed
288-2021   3-8-21   Insurance companies license fees         112.01 -
                                                             112.11
291-2021   4-14-21  Council meetings time                    32.21
293-2021   7-8-21   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2021-2022        35.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VIII
294-2021   6-24-21  Adopting annual budget for FY 2021-2022  Not Included
295-2022   6-9-22   Repealing Ord. 281, 2019                 Repealing Ord. 281
296-2022   5-12-22  City Council composition                 30.02
298-2022   9-8-22   Ad valorem taxes for FY 2022-2023        35.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VIII
299-2022   7-26-22  Amending annual budget for FY 2021- 2022 Not Included
300-2022   9-15-22  Council meetings time                    32.21
2022-301   9-15-22  Adopting annual budget for FY 2022-2023  Not Included
302-2022   11-10-22 Rules of order and procedure for Council 32.23
                    meetings
303-2023   2-10-23  Insurance companies license fees         112.01  -
                                                             112.11
304-2023   2-10-23  Compensation and classification of city  Not Include
                    employees
305-2023   2-10-23  Council meetings time                    32.21
306-2023   5-22-23  Ad valorem taxes for FY 2023-2024        35.02 ,
                                                             T.S.O. VIII
2023-307   5-22-23  Adopting annual budget for FY 2023-2024  Not Included
308-2023   10-12-23 Creating for bid a non-exclusive         T.S.O. V
                    electric franchise
309-2023   10-12-23 Creating for bid a non-exclusive natural T.S.O. V
                    gas franchise
310-2023   12-14-23 Trash containers; parking                50.04 ,
                                                             72.13
311-2024   6-19-24  Ad valorem taxes for FY 2024-2025        35.02 ,
                                                             T.S.O. VIII
2024-312   6-19-24  Adopting annual budget for FY 2024-2025  Not Included
313-2024   11-14-24 Offices of City Clerk; Deputy City Clerk 31.36
                                                           
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
RES. NO. DATE      CODE SECTION
75-88    7-5-88  T.S.O. V
76-88    - -       31.21(D)(9)
2023-003 - -       T.S.O. V
2023-004 - -       T.S.O. V
                  
 
