WICKLIFFE, KENTUCKY,
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 671, passed 10-10-2024
State legislation current through 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
   ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance 541
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WICKLIFFE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2nd supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wickliffe:
   Section 1. That the 2nd supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as it set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 3rd day of April, 2001.
Passed on First Reading:         04/03/01
Adopted on Second Reading      04/04/01
Signed by Mayor Sylvio L. Mayolo /s/
Published in the Advance Yeoman 2 times.
Signed and Recorded by City Clerk  Wanda Kay Green /s/
Ordinance 554
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   OF THE CITY OF WICKLIFFE, KENTUCKYOrdinance 554
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2002 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wickliffe:
   Section 1. That the 2002 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as it set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 1st day of July, 2003.
Passed on First Reading:         06/03/03
Adopted on Second Reading:      07/01/03
Published in the paper:         07/06/03
Signed by Mayor Sylvio L. Mayolo /s/
Signed and Recorded by City Clerk  Wanda Kay Green /s/
Ordinance 560
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WICKLIFFE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wickliffe:
   Section 1. That the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 5th day of October, 2004.
Passed on First Reading:         09/07/04
Adopted on Second Reading:      10/05/04
Published in the paper:         10/27/04 and 11/03/04
Signed by Mayor Sylvio L. Mayolo /s/
Signed and Recorded by City Clerk  Wanda Kay Green /s/
Ordinance 576
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WICKLIFFE, KENTUCKY
 
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2006 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wickliffe:
   Section 1. That the 2006 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 5th day of November, 2007.
Passed on First Reading:         October 2nd, 2007
Adopted on Second Reading:      November 5th, 2007
Signed by Mayor            Herby Vance
Published in the paper:         November 13th, 2007
Recorded by Clerk            November 20th, 2007
                                          Herby Vance /s/
                                          Mayor
ATTEST:
Kay Green /s/
City Clerk
Ordinance 581
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WICKLIFFE, KENTUCKY
 
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wickliffe, Kentucky, 42087:
   Section 1. That the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 2nd day of September, 2008.
Passed on First Reading:         August 5, 2008
Adopted on Second Reading:      September 2, 2008
Signed by Mayor            September 10, 2008
Published in the Paper:         September 17, 2008
Recorded by Clerk            September 17, 2008
                                          Herby Vance /s/
      Mayor
ATTEST:
Kay Green /s/
City Clerk
Ordinance 607
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WICKLIFFE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2014 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wickliffe, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wickliffe:
   Section 1. That the 2014 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Wickliffe, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 1st day of April, 2014.
Passed on First Reading:         April 1, 2014
Adopted on Second Reading:      May 6, 2014
Signed by Mayor:            May 7, 2014
Published in the Paper:         May 14, 2014
Recorded by Clerk:            May 14, 2014
                                          Lynn Hopkins /s/
      Mayor
ATTEST:
Bethany Cain /s/
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      10. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Wickliffe Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010 (1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010 (2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010 (55))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010 (8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Wickliffe irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010 (9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010 (10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010 (5))
   COUNTY. Ballard County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010 (12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010 (13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to corporations, partnerships, business trusts, or
limited liability companies means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
business trusts, statutory trusts, or limited liability companies includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilman.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Wickliffe, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIPS. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1- 1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   DEPARTMENTS AND AUTHORITIES
      
37.   ETHICS AND ETHICAL CONDUCT
      
38.   BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of City
Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the Ballard County Clerk by no later than
the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year preceding
the year in which the legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of City Council
members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of
the number of City Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Participation in County Employees Retirement System
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk-Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of the person administering the oath of office to an
elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was administered and
the date of its administration. Said certification shall be filed in accordance
with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond. 
      (1)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, a regional wastewater
commission, and special districts who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local governing body
for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and as security
for all money coming into that person's hands or under that person's control.
The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds the
officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during a fiscal year
cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with subsection (1) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees
and non-elected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
§ 31.04 PARTICIPATION IN COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city is authorized to participate in the County Employees
Retirement System and all eligible regular full-time officers and employees of
the city are hereby authorized and directed to comply with the statutory
requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   All the employees of this city (either employed under nonhazardous job
positions or hazardous positions) whose duties require an average of 100 hours
during each working month shall be considered as “regular full-time” employees
for County Retirement purposes except those persons who are employed as
“temporary,” “emergency,” “part- time,” and “seasonal” workers, as defined in
KRS 78.510(21) of the county employees retirement laws.
(Ord. 476, passed 7-17-89)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.050, elections for city officers shall be
nonpartisan as provided in KRS 83A.170. Pursuant to KRS 83A.045, the city
hereby elects to forego the conduct of a primary election for the nomination of
candidates to city elective office.
(Ord. 510, passed 3-5-96)
      (2)    A city may forgo conducting a nonpartisan primary for the
nomination of candidates to city office, regardless of the number of candidates
running for each office, and require all candidates to file their nomination
papers with the County Clerk of the county not earlier than the first Wednesday
after the first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
office will appear on the ballot and not later than the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in June before the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a
regular election for the office. Signatures for nomination papers shall not be
affixed on the document to be filed prior to the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the office
will appear on the ballot.
(KRS 83A.045(2)(b)1.)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
      Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
      Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be effective at the
next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body occurring after
the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      City Clerk-Treasurer.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk- Treasurer.
   (B)   The offices of City Clerk and Treasurer are hereby consolidated to a
single office, which shall be designated as a Clerk- Treasurer. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall perform all the duties that have been heretofore performed by
the separate offices.
(Ord. 374, passed 7-10-61)
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)    No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city's appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk-Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            2.   City Manager or Administrator;
            3.   City Attorney;
            4.   Human Resources Director;
            5.   Police Chief;
            6.   Fire Chief;
            7.   Public Works Director;
            8.   Risk Manager;
            9.   Information Technology Manager;
            10.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            11.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk or City Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk- Treasurer
unless such person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if
required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk-Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the city legislative body occurring after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)    The City Council shall hold regular meetings once a month on the
second Tuesday of each month at 5:30 p.m., based on the official time then
prevailing throughout the county; provided, however, that whenever the second
Thursday of a month falls on a legal holiday, then the regular meeting for that
month shall be held as soon as possible as scheduled by the Mayor and Council
and will be reported in the newspaper and posted at City Hall.
(Ord. 502, passed 10-4-94; Am. Ord. 567, passed 3-7-06; Am. Ord. 596, passed 1-
11-12; Am. Ord. 608, passed 6-23-14; Am. Ord. 621, passed 8-4- 15; Am. Ord.
636, passed 6-19-18; Am. Ord. 636, passed 3-14-19; Am. Ord. 671, passed 10-10-
24)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Wickliffe.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk-Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be  enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK-TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk-Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky.
Constitution § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Cemetery funds
   
33.07   Bond processing fee
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States. (KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (1)   The annual budget proposal shall show the revenues anticipated to
be received from various sources and proposed spending of money for various
programs and functions of the city for the budget year. The total of
anticipated revenues shall not exceed the total of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   The annual budget proposal shall contain a budget message (as
specified in KRS 91A.030(7)) and a budget summary to be used in consideration
and preparation of the annual budget ordinance required to be adopted by the
city under KRS Chapter 91A.030.
      (4)   Any anticipated excess revenues, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent such excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the annual budget proposal.
(Ord. 438, passed - -81)
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)    The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under this section to the Legislative Research Commission to be
used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor of Public
Accounts
   (D)   As the city is required by this section to conduct an annual audit,
the city shall enter into a written contract with an auditor, who shall be a
certified public accountant or the Auditor of Public Accounts. The contract
shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall include,
but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's workpapers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules--Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than 500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines of this section, the city may submit a written
request for an extension of time to the Department for Local Government on a
form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The Department for
Local Government shall approve the request if, in the judgment of the
Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city or other factors that justify the
city’s noncompliance with the required deadlines. The Department for Local
Government may consider any evidence it deems appropriate, including but not
limited to proof of the city’s progress towards compliance. Extensions granted
under this division shall not exceed 18 months from the original due date of
the audit or financial statement. If the Department for Local Government
approves an extension for a city and the city fails to complete and submit the
required audit or financial statement in compliance with that extended
deadline, then the provisions of division (I) below shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in this section, the
Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance and Administration
Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this
section, and that any funds in the possession of any agency, entity, or branch
of state government shall be withheld from the city until further notice. The
Department for Local Government shall immediately notify the Finance and
Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the requirements of this
section for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall
direct the reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were
withheld due to the noncompliance. This division (I) shall not be interpreted
or construed to permit the state to withhold any nondiscretionary payments to
the city that are due the city for the provision of services by the city to the
state or any of its agencies, including for the use of city utilities.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040(1), (5) - (13))
Statutory reference:
   Governor’s Office for Local Development to provide assistance, see KRS
91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 CEMETERY FUNDS.
   (A)   Board of Trustees. A Board of Trustees is hereby created and empowered
with the care and maintenance of the Wickliffe Cemetery. This Board of Trustees
shall be comprised of five persons, consisting of two members of the City
Council and three members of the general public who live in the vicinity of the
city. This Board of Trustees shall be responsible for establishing rules and
regulations for the operation of the Wickliffe Cemetery in a business-like
manner.
   (B)   Cemetery Land Purchase Fund. There is now created the City of
Wickliffe Cemetery Land Purchase Fund to be funded by proceeds from the sale of
cemetery lots. This fund, and any income derived from investing this fund,
shall be used only for the purchase of additional land for the cemetery as
needed.
   (C)   Cemetery Maintenance Fund. There is now created the City of Wickliffe
Cemetery Maintenance Fund to be used for the care and maintenance of the
cemetery and to be funded by donations from the general public and funds
received from the withdrawal of the certificate of deposit currently held at
First Community Bank issued to “City of Wickliffe Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund”
Account No. XXXXX8104.
   (D)   Report of the Board. The Board of Trustees shall, not less than
annually, and more often if requested by the City Council, report to the City
Council on the status of the funds and the maintenance and upkeep of the
cemetery. Funds created herein may include as many accounts as the trustees
deem necessary and the trustees shall invest the funds in securities of the
United States government and/or in financial institutions within the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. All accounts or investments maintained in any bank or
financial institution in excess of the amount insured by an agency of the
Federal Government shall be secured by a pledge of collateral with a Federal
Reserve Bank for the portion of deposits in excess of the amount insured.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees, City Council, Mayor, City Clerk and City
Attorney shall have access to any and all documentation, whether held by a
lending institution or otherwise, regarding the Cemetery Perpetual Care Trust
Fund or any investment titled as a public fund or perpetual care fund.
(Ord. 482, passed 3-5-91; Am. Ord. 610, passed 6-23-14; Am. Ord. 618, passed 6-
11-15)
§ 33.07 BOND PROCESSING FEE.
   For the purposes of raising revenue to operate and meet ever rising
expenses; the city hereby does ordain and levy a bond processing fee, in an
amount as set by City Council from time to time. This section pertains to any
bonds issued in the name of the city for industrial construction, expansion,
environmental, pollution, or waste control of any other need that is involved
with industry. This fee does not apply to city-owned services such as gas,
water, or sewage, and the like.
(Ord. 527, passed 5-5-98)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a public competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in divisions (1) through (8), (10) or (11) of this
definition; by a member or employee of such a public agency; or by any
combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in divisions (1) through (9), or (11) of this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in divisions (1) through (10) of this definition.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) through
(5) of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of media
and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)    Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information could pose an articulable risk of harm to the agency or its
investigation by revealing the identity of informants or witnesses not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records of information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement a
action, including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no
action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision shall not be used by the
custodian of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by
this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, correspondence with private individuals,
other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of final action of a
public agency; Preliminary recommendations, and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations, and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied,
leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, "terrorist act" means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(9)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of;
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos;
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to deny, abridge, or
impede the right of a public agency employee, including university employees,
an applicant for employment, or an eligible person on a register to inspect and
to copy any record including preliminary and other supporting documentation
that relates to him or her. The records shall include but not be limited to
work plans, job performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation,
classification, reallocation, transfers, lay-offs, disciplinary actions,
examination scores, and preliminary and other supporting documentation. A
public agency employee, including university employees, applicants, or eligible
persons shall not have the right to inspect or to copy any examination or any
documents relating to ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by an
agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(16) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Ad Valorem Taxes
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
Bank Franchise and Local Deposit Tax
   
35.15   Tax rate, collection, use
AD VALOREM TAXES
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Ballard County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Ord. 652, passed 11-10-21)
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes before December 1 after
they become due shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 652, passed 11-10-21)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. Also, any taxes not
paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be subject to interest in
the amount of 0.5% on the taxes due and unpaid, which interest shall accrue
monthly from and after the delinquency date until such time that the unpaid
taxes, together with the accrued penalty and interest, are fully paid. All
costs, such as filing, court, lawyer fees, serving charges, if by a sheriffs
department or registered mail, or any other costs that may be incurred, shall
be added to the delinquent tax amount. An additional $25 will be added to the
total tax bill as a processing charge.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the fifth
class.
(Ord. 652, passed 11-10-21)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Ballard County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
§ 35.15 TAX RATE, COLLECTION, USE.
   (A)   Tax rate.  There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as
defined in KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, a
franchise tax at the rate of 0.020% on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter
136, maintained by such financial institutions.
(Ord. 520, passed 5-6-97)
   (B)   Collection. For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the
following timetable is hereby established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31
of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (C)   Lien. The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property
subject to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to
all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (D)   Delinquency. All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are
not paid before January 31, for all tax years, shall be deemed delinquent, and
shall be subject to a penalty of 10%, and shall bear interest at the rate of 2%
per annum.
   (E)   Tax use. All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid
into the general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS AND AUTHORITIES
Section
Police Department
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Police Chief
   
36.03   Police officer
   
36.04   Kentucky Law Enforcement Foundation Program
   
36.05   Protective gear and the like
   
36.06   Collection of costs for service of process
   
36.07   Domestic violence policy adopted by reference
Wickliffe-Ballard County Riverport Authority
   
36.20   Establishment, delegation of powers
   
36.21   Members, appointment
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Police Department for the city.
(Ord. 533, passed 5-4-99)
§ 36.02 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Chief of Police of the city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office are hereby established as
follows:
      (1)   Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and evaluates the
activities and programs of the Police Department.
      (2)   Formulates departmental policies, procedures, rules, and
regulations following consultation with-higher authority and subordinate
officers.
      (3)   Develops organizational structure of the department in accordance
with professional standards and Council policy.
      (4)   Prepares and authorizes work schedules.
      (5)   Furnishes technical advice on police problems.
      (6)   Maintains constant surveillance of criminal and traffic reports in
addition to activity reports.
      (7)   Initiates corrective action when and where necessarily indicated.
      (8)   Supervises and evaluates the use of police equipment.
      (9)   Instructs, disciplines, and evaluates department personnel.
      (10)   Reviews and recommends acceptable standards and procedures for the
recruitment, selection, promotion, and training of department personnel.
      (11)   Authorizes purchase requisitions of supplies and equipment for the
department with City Council approval.
      (12)   Confers with representatives of federal, state, and local agencies
on various police problems.
      (13)   Prepares memoranda and reports on activities of the department,
orally and in writing, and supervises others in the preparation of reports.
      (14)   Attends all Council Meetings and reports on activity and
requirements.
      (15)   Receives complaints from the general public.
      (16)   Studies and reviews all laws, official opinions, and guidelines.
      (17)   Maintains a proper record system pertaining to citations, arrests,
and investigations.
      (18)   Participates in approved law enforcement courses and schedules
subordinates for such training.
      (19)   Represents the department as needed.
      (20)   Develops and conducts an effective public relations program.
   (C)   Compensation for this office shall be pay at the weekly rate as
established by ordinance of the City Council.
   (D)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
office.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall execute a bond to the city in the amount of
$1,000.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall report to the Mayor.
(Ord. 533, passed 5-4-99)
§ 36.03 POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The office of city police officer is hereby established.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the office of city police officer shall be as
stated in the adopted position description for the position, as contained in
the classification plan for city employees or as otherwise provided by the City
Council.
   (C)   The individual holding the position of city police officer shall take
the following oath upon assuming office:
      “I, (state your name), do solemnly swear to faithfully execute the duties
and fulfill the responsibilities of the office of city police officer to the
very best of my abilities and with honesty, dependability, and integrity. I do
solemnly swear to uphold, in the conduct of my office, all ordinances of the
City of Wickliffe and all laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and of the
government of the United States. I do further solemnly swear to conduct myself
at all times with a dignity of purpose and manner which will bring credit to
the citizens of the City of Wickliffe.”
   (D)   The city police officer shall, before entering the duties of office,
execute a bond to the city in such penal sum of $5,000, conditioned for the
faithful performance of duties, including the duties of all offices of which
the officer is ex officio incumbent. The bond shall be approved by the City
Council.
   (E)   The individual holding the position of city police officer shall be
compensated for his or her efforts in accordance with the adopted pay plan, or
as otherwise provided by the City Council.
(Ord. 533, passed 5-4-99)
§ 36.04 KENTUCKY LAW ENFORCEMENT FOUNDATION PROGRAM.
   The city will participate in the Kentucky Law Enforcement Foundation
Program, as was passed by the City Council at the January 17, 1996 meeting.
This section will also permit the city to apply for any other additional grant
monies that may be used to expand, purchase equipment, or further the security
coverage of the police force on the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 533, passed 5-4-99)
§ 36.05 PROTECTIVE GEAR AND THE LIKE.
   All police officers will be supplied with protective equipment, such as
vests, guns, clubs, cuffs, mace, and the like. Police officers will be
requested to wear this protective gear at all times when on duty. This section
will also cover any equipment that the City Council or state regulatory offices
may recommend as necessary for the safety of police employees.
(Ord. 533, passed 5-4-99)
§ 36.06 COLLECTION OF COSTS FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Pursuant to KRS 95.019, any fees for execution of warrants of arrest,
processes, subpoenas, and attachments for witnesses, served by the Chief of
Police or any members of the police force shall be paid directly to the city
treasury since the Chief of Police and any other members of the force are
employed on salary.
(Ord. 455, passed 7-2-85)
§ 36.07 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Wickliffe Police Department Domestic Violence Policy adopted by
Ordinance 519A on 3-4-97, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this code the same as if set forth in full herein. A copy of the Wickliffe
Police Department Domestic Violence Policy shall be maintained on file in the
office of the City Clerk/Administrative Assistance and with the Police
Department and may be inspected during normal office hours.
(Ord. 519A, passed 3-4-97; Am. Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
WICKLIFFE-BALLARD COUNTY RIVERPORT AUTHORITY
§ 36.20 ESTABLISHMENT, DELEGATION OF POWERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established, pursuant to KRS 65.510 et
seq., “The Wickliffe-Ballard County Riverport Authority.”
   (B)   The Wickliffe-Ballard County Riverport Authority herein established
shall have all the powers, functions and duties authorized by the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, and in addition thereto, the city hereby delegates such other
powers to the Riverport Authority which are necessary in carrying out its
operations and activities.
(Ord. 475, passed 7-17-89; Am. Ord. 549, passed 10-1-2002)
§ 36.21 MEMBERS, APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Riverport Authority shall be composed of eight members, three of
whom shall be appointed by the Judge/Executive of Ballard County and three of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city. In addition the Judge/
Excutive may appoint himself or herself or a member of the Fiscal Court as one
additional member of the Authority, and the Mayor may appoint himself or
herself or a member of the city legislative body as one additional member of
the Authority for a term of two years, provided that such persons may not serve
on the Authority after the expiration of their terms as an elected official. Of
the initial appointments by the County Judge and the Mayor, members shall be as
follows: two members for two years, two members for three years, and two
members for four years.
   (B)   Appointments made by the Mayor shall be with the approval of the City
Council.
   (C)   All members appointed shall reside within Ballard County. No Riverport
Authority member shall hold any official office with the city or the county
with the exception of the provisions of division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 475, passed 7-17-89; Am. Ord. 549, passed 10-1-2002)
CHAPTER 37: ETHICS AND ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
   
37.01   Qualifications
   
37.02   Conflict of interest
   
37.03   Gifts
   
37.04   Use of city equipment and personnel
   
37.05   Representation of persons before city government
   
37.06   Misuse of information
   
37.07   Post employment restrictions
   
37.08   Off duty or outside employment
   
37.09   Honoraria
   
37.10   Financial disclosure
   
37.11   Nepotism
   
37.12   Enforcement
§ 37.01 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall:
      (1)   Be at least 25 years of age
      (2)   Be a qualified voter in the city
      (3)   Reside in the city for the duration of his term
      (4)   Have no interest in any contract with the city.
   (B)   The Legislative Body members shall:
      (1)   Be at least 21 years of age
      (2)   Be a qualified voter in the city
      (3)   Reside in the city for the duration of his term
      (4)   Have no interest in any contract with the city.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.02 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   An elected or nonelected officer or employee of the city shall not
intentionally participate in the discussion of, vote, or make a decision in his
official capacity on any matter:
   (A)   In which the elected or nonelected officer or employee, or any family
member, (husband, wife, children, parents, brothers or sisters) or business
associate will derive a direct monetary gain or suffer a direct monetary loss
as a result of the officer's or employee's vote or decision; or
   (B)   No elected or nonelected officer or employee or any family member of
an elected or nonelected officer or employee shall have an interest in a
business or engage in any business, transaction, or activity, which is in
substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his or her duties in the
public interest which relates specifically to a business in which the officer
or employee owns or controls an interest of $10,000 or more, or an interest of
more than 5%.
   (C)   No elected or nonelected officer or employee shall use or attempt to
use his or her official position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages
for himself or others.
   (D)   No elected or nonelected officer or employee shall be deemed in
violation of these provisions if, by reason of the elected or nonelected
officer's or employee's participation, vote, decision, or inaction, no monetary
or material gain accrues to the elected or nonelected officer or employee, a
family member, or a business associate, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent that any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group. Nothing in these provisions shall
prohibit an elected officer from voting on matters affecting his or her
compensation, expenses, benefits, and allowances, as provided by law.
   (E)   Every elected or nonelected officer and employee who has a prohibited
financial interest which he or she believes or has reason to believe may be
affected by an official action taken within the scope of his or her employment,
including any vote or decision, shall disclose the precise nature and value of
the interest, in writing, to the governing body and the disclosure shall be
entered on the official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The
officer or employee shall refrain from taking any official action with respect
to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure. Penalty for the violation
of this chapter will be the cancellation of any contract etc., repayments or
removal from office, job or board/committee or a verbal or written reprimand as
the Enforcement Committee deems appropriate.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.03 GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee or appointee of the city shall, directly or
indirectly, solicit any gift or accept or receive any gift having a value of
$75 or more, whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel,
entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise or any other form, under
circumstances in which it could be reasonably inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the
officer, employee or appointee in the performance of his or her official
duties, or was intended as a reward for any official action.
   (B)   Excluded from the gift prohibition are the following:
      (1)   Gifts received from relatives.
      (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the city and transferred to the city.
      (3)   Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food and beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development
activities, or fact-finding trips related to official government business.
      (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business.
      (5)   Awards presented in recognition of public service.
   (C)   Division (B)(3) above should be made a part of the Council minutes as
a follow up to say economic development efforts or other government business
trips/meetings.
   (D)   Penalty for the violation of this section will be the return of gift,
money, discontinuance of service or additional verbal or written reprimand that
the Enforcement Committee may deem appropriate.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.04 USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city including the Mayor or Council
persons shall use any public time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other
personal or real property for his or her private gain or for the private gain
of any other person, unless the use is authorized by law.
   (B)   Penalty for the violation of this section will be the immediate
cessation of the violation and possible suspension without pay up to or equal
to the value received by the violation as the Enforcement Committee may deem
appropriate.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.05 REPRESENTATION OF PERSONS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No salaried city official or employee shall represent, for
compensation, any other private person, group or entity before any department,
commission, board or committee of the city. All city persons covered in this
ethic chapter will not be used as employment references for positions with the
city.
   (B)   No salaried city official or employee shall represent, directly or
indirectly, any other private person, group or entity in any action or
proceeding against the interests of the city, or in any litigation in which the
city or any department, commission, board or committee thereof is a party;
provided, however, that nothing herein shall limit the authority of the City
Solicitor and his staff to represent the city, its boards, commissions,
committees and officers in the discharge of their duties.
   (C)   Penalty for the violation of this section will be a verbal or written
public reprimand as the Enforcement Committee may deem appropriate.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.06 MISUSE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   No official or employee shall disclose confidential information, which
by law or policy is not available to the public, concerning the property,
governing operations, policies, or affairs of the city, except when required by
state or federal law, or by court order or lawful subpoena; nor shall such
official or employee use confidential information acquired in his or her
official capacity to advance the financial interest or personal interest of
himself, herself, or others in any instance where the same would conflict with
the best interest of the city. Information shall be deemed confidential if it
is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS
61.872 to 61.884, at the time of its disclosure or use.
   (B)   Penalty for the violation of this section will be a verbal or written
reprimand by the Enforcement Committee. Repeated occurrences will be brought to
the attention of the Mayor and Council for review and action.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.07 POST EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No former public official or employee shall appear on behalf of a
private interest other than his or her own on any matter before the city until
one year after he or she has left his or her position with the city. However,
in the case of an officer (official) the ban will be permanent on matters in
which the officer was personally involved in establishing and noting in favor
of. The latter will be waived in case where such a service etc. would cost the
city additional revenue by approval of the Council and Mayor.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of this section will be the immediate
discontinuing of service/contract etc. The Enforcement Committee may also elect
to have any monies returned over and above the actual cost of the service/
material as they deem appropriate.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.08 OFF DUTY OR OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   City employment shall remain the first priority and if at any time the
outside employment interferes with an employee's job requirements or
performance for the city, the employee shall be required to modify the
conditions of the outside employment or terminate either the off-duty
employment or his or her city employment.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall undertake any employment or service,
whether compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice his
or her independent judgment in the exercise of his or her official duties.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of this article will be the immediate
discontinuing of the practice or within a reasonable time frame, in order to
avoid further disruptions, if the Enforcement Committee finds this to be a more
prudent approach to correcting the problem.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.09 HONORARIA.
   (A)   A city officer or employee shall not accept any compensation or
honorarium in excess of $35 value in consideration for an appearance, speech,
or article unless that appearance, speech, or article is both related to the
officer's or employee's employment or activities outside of municipal service
and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's service with the city.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of this section will be a verbal public
reprimand. In addition if violations reoccur monies or gifts etc. will be
returned and this will be part of the public reprimand. Nothing in this section
shall prohibit an officer or employee of the city or any city agency from
receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf of the city actual and
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the officer or employee in
connection with an appearance, speech or article, provided that the officer or
employee can show by clear and convincing evidence that the expenses were
incurred or received on behalf of the city or city agency and primarily for the
benefit of the city or city agency and not primarily for the benefit of the
officer or employee or any other person. Further examples are admission, gas
mileage and membership dues associated with city business.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.10 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Requirements. The financial disclosure requirement will involve the
following and will be filed annually with the Enforcement Committee:
      (1)   All elected officials.
      (2)   All candidates for elected city offices.
      (3)   Members of planning, zoning and trailer committees.
      (4)   Officials and employees who are authorized to make purchase of
materials or services or award contracts, leases on behalf of the city or city
agency involving amounts in excess of the bidding threshold ($10,000).
      (5)   City employees who handle city monies such as collection, bonds
issues and investments that require a bond.
   (B)   Disclosure.
      (1)   Name.
      (2)   Address (home and work).
      (3)   Title of office or office being sought.
      (4)   Occupations of filer and spouse.
      (5)   Information regarding each source of income of the filer and the
filer's immediate family members (spouse and dependents) from within the state
exceeding $5,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the form of the income
(for example, salary, interest, and the like).
      (6)   Names and addresses of all business organizations located within
the state in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
at any time during the preceding year an interest of $10,000 at fair market
value or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (7)   A designation as “commercial,” “residential,” or “rural,” and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the file's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more.
      (8)   Each source, by name and address, of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $200 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts from family members, received by the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
      (9)   The name of any creditor owed more than $10,000 except debts
arising from the purchase of consumer goods or a primary residence.
      (10)   Nothing in this section shall require the disclosure of specific
dollar amounts or the name of individual clients or customers of business
listed as source of income.
   (C)   Disclosure information and procedures.
      (1)   All candidates for elected office or city office will be issued a
copy of this Ethics and Ethical Conduct ordinance upon filing or seeking
employment.
      (2)   All candidates, officials or employees will file a disclosure
within 30 days of actual filing for office and at the time an application for
employment is returned.
      (3)   Within 45 days after there is any material change in any
information previously submitted; an updated status statement will be filed.
   (D)   Positions that will be required to file.
      (1)   Officers and employees who are elected:
         (a)   Mayor.
         (b)   Council.
         (c)   Any future office that will be elected.
         (d)   Members of Planning, Zoning, and Trailer Committees.
      (2)   City Clerk and assistants.
      (3)   Department head.
      (4)   Future department head or supervisor that may be created.
      (5)   Any future nonelected offices that may be created to perform city
business.
   (E)   Disclosure statement.
      (1)   Name of individual and position with city.
      (2)   Type of business.
      (3)   Yes or no if the limits are exceeded or not.
      (4)   Officer's relationship to business. Example: owner, partner (silent
or otherwise), officer director, stockholder, or employee.
   (F)   Form for filing. A form developed by the city, Mayor and Council will
be made part of this chapter and use for filing.
   (G)   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests.
Penalty for violation of this article will be a verbal public reprimand on
minor infraction as the Enforcement Committee may deem appropriate. Major
violations could be a recommendation by the Enforcement Committee that the
Council or Mayor take action to remove the person or persons from office.
      (1)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the City Clerk designated by the
Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents, available for public
inspection immediately upon filing.
      (2)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board,
or the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
         (a)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
         (b)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.11 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Since Wickliffe is a small community the wealth of qualified personnel
within the area and the pay scale could limit the selection process. Therefore,
this must be taken into consideration under the nepotism clause. The two main
factors that must be addressed are “qualified” and “payscale.”
      (1)   A person can be employed by the city if she/he meets or exceeds the
qualifications being used for the position being considered. However, all other
applicants must be judged on the same basis.
      (2)   Relatives (husband, wife, children, parents, brothers or sisters)
involved will in no instance use their position to influence the Mayor, Council
Members, Clerk-Treasurer or Supervisor in the selection process.
      (3)   In the case of a relative being recommended by the selection
process, it is recommended that the Mayor and Council will agree on the
recommendations by a two thirds majority. In no way will this clause alter the
selection process under current state law (fifth class) if the Mayor does not
wish to seek approval or a two-third Council approval.
      (4)   During the period of employment and advancement, the Mayor may
place restrictions on job duties and responsibilities if a conflict of interest
or other problems could occur in the case of related employees.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of this article could be the discharge of the
related employee if the Enforcement Committee finds a violation after their
investigation. A further recommendation that legal action be taken against the
Mayor, Council and employees would also be in order if the Committee finds
gross violations.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
§ 37.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duties of the Enforcement Agent.
      (1)   Regardless of who is designated to enforce the city's ethics code,
KRS 65.003 sets forth the basic duties required of the enforcement agent. The
basic duties include:
         (a)   Maintenance of financial disclosure statements;
         (b)   Receipt of complaints alleging possible violations;
         (c)   Issuance of opinions in response to inquiries;
         (d)   Investigation of possible violations; and
         (e)   Imposition of penalties.
      (2)   The enforcement agent in interpreting and applying the provisions
of this act shall recognize that under the principles of democracy, public
officers and employees cannot and should not be expected to be without any
personal interest in the decisions and policies of government; that citizens
who are government officers and employees have a right to private interest of a
personal, financial, and economic nature; and that standards of conduct shall
distinguish between those conflicts of interest which are prejudicial and
material and are, therefore, corruptive of democracy and free society.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   Each clause has a suggested course of action as a penalty for
violation of that clause. However, this is not to suggest that further criminal
or civil action or fines or penalties could be recommended.
      (2)   Any penalties shall not violate any provisions of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes or future statutes which shall be enforced.
      (3)   Changes to this chapter in regards to fine, penalties and
forfeitures may be imposed by the Council at a later date to further insure
compliance with the ordinance.
      (4)   The City Attorney has the statutory duty to pursue enforcement of
the penalties in the appropriate court etc. for the violation of city
ordinances. However, in the case of a possible conflict another independent
attorney will be appointed.
   (C)   Enforcement Committee.
      (1)   Will be composed of three citizens for a term of three years and
members may be reappointed.
      (2)   Will be recommended by the Mayor and approved by the Council.
      (3)   The City Attorney could be asked to offer legal advice or provide
any information that the Enforcement Committee may request, providing that
there is not a conflict of interest.
      (4)   Subject to the requirements of the Kentucky Open Records Law,
advisory opinions of the ethics board (or enforcement officer) shall not be
made public, except when the ethics board by the vote of two-thirds of all of
its members (or when the enforcement officer) directs that the opinion be made
public. Public advisory opinions shall not disclose the name of the local
government officer or employee, unless the Ethics Board (or enforcement
officer) in directing that the opinion be made public so determines.
(Ord. 503, passed 10-4-94)
CHAPTER 38: BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
38.01   Kentucky Main Street Program; Kentucky Renaissance on Main Program
§ 38.01 KENTUCKY MAIN STREET PROGRAM; KENTUCKY RENAISSANCE ON MAIN PROGRAM.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish the city's commitment to
participate in the Kentucky Main Street Program and the Kentucky Renaissance on
Main Program and to enact the formal and binding statement of the plans,
expectations and responsibilities required for certification by the Kentucky
Main Street Program and the Kentucky Renaissance on Main Program from the city,
and Main Street Committee, which is the group serving as the coordinating
committee for the Renaissance on Main Street Program. This commitment is made
retroactive to January 1, 2008, and is effective for January 1, 2008 through
December 31, 2008, subject to annual renewal.
   (B)   The city and the organization hereby commit to participate in the
Kentucky Main Street Program and agree to:
      (1)   Employ a local Main Street Manager who will be responsible for the
day-to-day administration of the local Main Street organization in the
community. In the event the Program Manager is vacated during the term of this
agreement, the city agrees to make every attempt to fill the position within
three months or less. The local Main Street Manager shall serve as a liaison
between the community and the local government and shall report to the local
government at each City Council meeting, and provide complete reports of all
activities, at least quarterly;
      (2)   Establish and/or maintain an organization focused on downtown
revitalization that includes representation from both the public and private
sectors. This committee shall meet on a regular basis and maintain meeting
minutes denoting the organizational business. The committee is encouraged to
establish working sub-committees including, but not limited to the following
committees: design, economic restructuring, promotion, and organization, in
order to comply fully with all state requirements for this program;
      (3)   Work together to provide an adequate budget with funds necessary
for operating a local Main Street/Renaissance on Main Program office,
implementing an active plan of work, and ongoing training of the Program
Manager on board. The funds shall be derived both from city resources, as well
as from local businesses and industries, state and federal grants and loans,
and all other available sources as developed by the Main Street Manager. All
such funds shall be deposited into a special Main Street account, to be
administered by the City Clerk, and from which all Main Street expenses shall
be paid;
      (4)   Develop and implement a comprehensive approach to downtown
revitalization using the Main Street Four-Point Approach and Eight Principles
ascribed by the National Main Street Center, including development of annual
written work plan for the local Main Street organization;
      (5)   Provide data and statistics for monitoring the progress of the
local Main Street Program by submitting required reports in a timely manner
using the format provided by the Kentucky Main Street Program and provide other
information requested by the Kentucky Main Street Program and Renaissance on
Main;
      (6)   Provide for the local Main Street Manager's and committee members'
attendance at local, state and national training opportunities. The local
program must be represented at a minimum of three trainings approved by the
Kentucky Heritage Council during the January-December time frame. The
organization shall be responsible for travel costs and other expenses
associated with these meetings;
      (7)   Provide copies of all materials relating to downtown revitalization
efforts to the Kentucky Main Street and Renaissance on Main Program;
      (8)   Demonstrate timely and professional administration of grant funds;
      (9)   Have assessment review of certification application completed by
KHC or peer by September, 2008.
(Ord. 577, passed 5-5-08)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWER USE
      
51.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION
      
52.   GAS SYSTEM RATES
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose and policy
   
50.002   Administration
   
50.003   Abbreviations
   
50.004   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
50.020   Extension of services
   
50.021   Prohibited discharge standards
   
50.022   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
50.023   State pretreatment standards
   
50.024   Conventional pollutant and local limits
   
50.025   Right of revision
   
50.026   Dilution
   
50.027   Mandatory sewer connection
   
50.028   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.029   Prohibited connections
   
50.030   Design and installations
   
50.031   Inspection of installations
   
50.032   General service rates and charges
   
50.033   Pretreatment program fees
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
50.045   Pretreatment facilities
   
50.046   Additional pretreatment measures
   
50.047   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
50.048   Hauled wastewater
Permits
   
50.060   Wastewater analysis
   
50.061   Individual wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
50.062   Individual wastewater discharge permitting; existing connections
   
50.063   Individual wastewater discharge permitting; new connections
   
50.064   Individual wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
50.065   Wastewater discharge permitting; general permits
   
50.066   Application signatories and certifications
   
50.067   Individual wastewater discharge permit decisions
   
50.068   Building sewer and connection permits
   
50.069   Individual wastewater discharge permit duration
   
50.070   Individual wastewater discharge permit contents
   
50.071   Individual wastewater discharge permit issuance process
   
50.072   Individual wastewater discharge permit modification
   
50.073   Individual wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
50.074   Individual wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
50.075   Individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance
   
50.076   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
50.085   Baseline monitoring reports
   
50.086   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
50.087   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
50.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.089   Reports of changed conditions
   
50.090   Reports of potential problems
   
50.091   Reports from unpermitted users
   
50.092   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
50.093   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
50.094   Analytical requirements
   
50.095   Sample collection
   
50.096   Date of receipt of reports
   
50.097   Recordkeeping
   
50.098   Certification statements
Compliance Monitoring
   
50.110   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
50.111   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
50.120   Confidential information
Publication of Users in Significant Noncompliance
   
50.125   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
50.130   Notification of violation
   
50.131   Consent orders
   
50.132   Show cause hearing
   
50.133   Compliance orders
   
50.134   Cease and desist orders
   
50.135   Administrative fines
   
50.136   Emergency suspensions
   
50.137   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
50.145   Injunctive relief
   
50.146   Civil penalties
   
50.147   Criminal prosecution
   
50.148   Remedies nonexclusive
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
50.160   Upset
   
50.161   Prohibited discharge standards
   
50.162   Bypass
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the City of Wickliffe. The chapter is an exercise of
the city's authority to impose requirements and restrictions on users to assure
proper operation of the city's facilities and for it to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United
States Code U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40
CFR part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the City of Wickliffe shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the city may be delegated by the city to a duly authorized
city employee or contractor.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   (A)   BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand;
   (B)   BMP - Best Management Practice;
   (C)   BMR - Baseline Monitoring Report;
   (D)   CFR - Code of Federal Regulations;
   (E)   CIU - Categorical Industrial User;
   (F)   COD - Chemical Oxygen Demand;
   (G)   CW - City of Wickliffe;
   (H)   CWWWTP - City of Wickliffe Wastewater Treatment Plant;
   (I)   EPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency;
   (J)   gpd - gallons per day;
   (K)   IU - Industrial User;
   (L)   KPDES - Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System;
   (M)   mg/l - milligrams per liter
   (N)   NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System;
   (O)   NSCIU -Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User;
   (P)   POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
   (Q)   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act;
   (R)   SIU - Significant Industrial User;
   (S)   SNC - Significant Noncompliance;
   (T)   TSS - Total Suspended Solids; and
   (U)   U.S.C. - United States Code
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Kentucky Division of Water.
   AUTHORIZED or DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations; is authorized to initiate and direct other comprehensive
measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws
and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or
actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual
wastewater discharge permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents
has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate
procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to CW.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20 degrees Centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration
(e.g., mg/l).
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs.
      (1)   Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance
procedures, and other management practices to implement the prohibitions listed
in §
50.021(A) and (B) (40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)).
      (2)   BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage. BMPs may also include
alternative means (i.e., management plans) of complying with, or in place of
certain established categorical pretreatment standards and effluent limits.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal; also called a "house connection."
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §
50.068.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific
category of users and that appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-
471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Wickliffe.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. The water-carried wastes produced from non-commercial
or non-industrial activities and which result from normal human living
processes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a "new source."
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples
collected at a defined volume interval so that the composite sample is
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of CW's KPDES permit or of the prevention
of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following
statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more
stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by CW upon
industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of “daily discharges”
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all “daily discharges” measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured
during that month.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of CW’s KPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
50.021.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The sewer owned or controlled by CW. In general, the PUBLIC
SEWER shall include all pipes and structures owned by CW. This does not include
service lines that connect individual structures (or multiple structures in the
case of Siamese connections and connections to multi-unit sewer customers) to
CW-owned collection lines that convey wastewater generated on or at multiple
properties.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned or operated by CW. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SERVICE AREA. All property connected to a public sewer that conveys
wastewater to the CWWWTP.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in divisions (3) and
(4) below, is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by CW on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   CW may determine that an industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial user rather
than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial user never
discharges more than 100 gpd of total categorical wastewater (excluding
sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless
specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to CW's finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
50.098(B) (see 40 CFR403.12(q)), together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, CW may at any time,
on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an industrial
user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that
such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
   SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE (SNC).
      (1)   Significant non-compliance (as defined in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)
(viii)), is a compliance status in which one or more of the following is found:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1);
         (b)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of
the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous
limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC =
1.4 for BOD, TOC, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous
limit, or narrative standard) that has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass through (including endangering the
health of WWTP and personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
CW’s exercise of its emergency authority at 40 CFR 403.8(f)(l)(vi)(B) to halt
or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports (BMR), 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of BMPs, which CW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the pretreatment program.
      (2)   When any action by the industrial user meets one or more of the
criteria for SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE (SNC), the industrial user shall be
designated SNC and reported in the annual pretreatment program reports. CW will
publish the list of each SNC industrial user and associated SNC violations in
the local newspaper annually.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
50.021. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works (Public Works Director),
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative, or other authorized
representative of the city, including the Mayor.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services, in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD5), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Total Suspended Solids
(TSS), or Ammonia-Nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which exceed limits
specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the control
authority, payment of a surcharge will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER. Any person, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.020 EXTENSION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby authorizes the use of all city streets,
highways, alleys, public ways and property owned by CW for the construction and
maintenance of extensions, additions and improvements to the sewer system
portion of the combined and consolidated waterworks and sewer system of CW,
without the necessity of further permits, licenses or other certifications from
CW.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
division shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of criminal
mischief.
   (C)   Service to unserved areas.
      (1)   In keeping with the requirements of KRS 76.539, which requires
cities to develop and adopt rules to govern the extension of services (water
and sewer) to unserved customers and areas outside the city limits or in a rare
case within an isolated or difficult area within the city, CW adopts the
following scale:
         (a)   Within 75 feet of an existing line (water and sewer), CW will
extend the line at no charge to the customer providing that no special
requirements such as a lift station, boring under driveways or roads (city,
county, or state), special pipes or any unusual requirements are required.
Fees, state or legal, will be paid by the person requesting service. The "no
charge" 75 feet is a one-time extension. In other words, further extension will
be paid by the person or persons requesting services beyond the original
extension.
         (b)   Any extension further than 75 feet will be borne by by the
customer providing that an extension (water and sewer) will benefit CW and the
customer.
         (c)   If an extension is of a length that future customers are added,
then the tap-on fees will be refunded to the original customer or developer
until the original cost is refunded minus the regular or normal tap-on charges.
         (d)   Legal costs for rights-of-way will be the responsibility of the
person requesting service. Any engineering costs (if required) will be the
responsibility of the person requesting service. All extensions will adhere to
KAR Title 401, Ch. 5, Sec. 2a (Form S-l 1 and Section 3). KRS 401-8.010.81600
and KRS Chapter 224.73 may also apply.
      (2)   There are fees attached to various regulations that will also be
the responsibility of the person or persons requesting service.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test methods specified in 40
CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
2022 S-14
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW, resulting in interference;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed 104 degrees F (40 degrees C);
      (6)   Wastewater containing petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil,
or products of mineral oil origin, in amounts greater than 25 mg/1;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the CW in accordance with §
50.048;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating CW's KPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by CW;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by CW in an
individual wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/1; and
      (18)   Any water or waste which has characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, or a shorter period composite sample if more representative
which exceed the following:
 
Parameter Maximum Allowable Concentration without Surcharge (mg/l)
BOD       500
TSS       250
NH3-N     40
 
   (C)   Any person discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above will be subject to a surcharge fee for each pound
loading over and above the set limit as follows:
 
Parameter Concentration Limit (mg/l)1 Surcharge1
BOD       500                         $0.18 per lb
TSS       250                         $0.16 per lb
NH3-N     40                          $0.15 per lb
1 Alternative limits for the surchargeable parameters may be allowed by CW.
Additionally, alternative surcharge rates may also be considered for specific
SIUs which pay discharge fees on a per load basis. The alternative limits and
surcharge rates shall be at the discretion of CW and shall be outlined in the
SIU's permit.
 
   (D)   Any other amenable constituents requiring the addition of specific
chemicals or treatment modifications for proper treatment will also be subject
to surcharge as noted on the wastewater discharge permit. Exceedance of the
effluent limits specified above shall not be deemed to constitute a violation
of a permit condition or these regulations if the appropriate surcharge fee is
paid and the discharge does not cause interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (E)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.022 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, CW may
impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with divisions (E)
and (F) below.
   (B)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, CW may convert the
limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant
discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of calculating
effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, CW shall impose an
alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   (D)   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with the following divisions of this section.
      (1)   (a)   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect
the presence of pollutants in the industrial user’s intake water in accordance
with this section.
         (b)   Any industrial user wishing to obtain credit for intake
pollutants must make application to CW. Upon request of the industrial user,
the applicable standard will be calculated on a “net” basis (i.e., adjusted to
reflect credit for pollutants in the intake water) if the requirements of
division (D)(2) below are met.
      (2)   Criteria.
         (a)   Either:
            1.   The applicable categorical pretreatment standards contained in
40 CFR subchapter N specifically provide that they shall be applied on a net
basis; or
            2.   The industrial user demonstrates that the control system it
proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical pretreatment standards would,
if properly installed and operated, meet the standards in the absence of
pollutants in the intake waters.
         (b)   Credit for generic pollutants such as Biochemical Oxygen Demand
(BOD), Total Suspended Solids (TSS), and oil and grease should not be granted
unless the industrial user demonstrates that the constituents of the generic
measure in the user’s effluent are substantially similar to the constituents of
the generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate additional limits
are placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.
         (c)   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard(s), up to a maximum value equal to
the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with standard(s) adjusted under this
section.
         (d)   Credit shall be granted only if the user demonstrates that the
intake water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the POTW
discharges. CW may waive this requirement if it finds that no environmental
degradation will result.
   (E)   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that CW convert the
limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert concentration
limits to mass limits is within the discretion of CW. CW may establish
equivalent mass limits only if the industrial user meets all the conditions set
forth in division (E)(l)(a) through (e) below.
      (1)   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
         (a)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
         (b)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         (c)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility’s
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility’s long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
         (d)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
         (e)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user’s request
for equivalent mass limits.
      (2)   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         (a)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         (b)   Continue to record the facility’s flow rates through the use of
a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         (c)   Continue to record the facility’s production rates and notify CW
whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than 20% from its
baseline production rates determined in division (E)(1)(c) above. Upon
notification of a revised production rate, CW will reassess the equivalent mass
limit and revise the limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the
facility; and
         (d)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to divisions (E)(l)(a)
above so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      (3)   When developing equivalent mass limits, CW:
         (a)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         (b)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (c)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual waste water discharge permit terms if the industrial user’s actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to §
50.026, the industrial user must also be in compliance with §
50.162 regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   (F)   CW may convert the mass limits of the categorical pretreatment
standards of 40 CFR parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration limits for
purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
The conversion is at the discretion of CW.
   (G)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
   (H)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   (I)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify CW within two business days after the user has a reasonable basis to
know that the production level will significantly change within the next
calendar month. Any user not notifying CW of such anticipated change will be
required to meet the mass or concentration limits in its permit that were based
on the original estimate of the long term average production rate.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.023 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the Kentucky pretreatment standards codified at 401
KAR 5:057.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.024 CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANT AND LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   CW is authorized to establish local limits as needed for it to comply
with 40 CFR 403.5(c).
   (B)   (1)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass through and interference at the CWWWTP. No person shall discharge
wastewater to the CWWWTP service area containing in excess of the following
daily maximum limits.
Parameter Max. Daily Concentration (mg/1)
Parameter                      Max. Daily Concentration (mg/1)
Arsenic                        1.19
Cadmium                        0.004
Chromium, hex                  0.58
Chromium, T                    1.71
Copper                         0.29
Cyanide, T                     0.16
Iron                           32
Lead                           0.08
Mercury                        0.0003
Nickel                         1.13
Oil and/or grease, total       100
Oil and/or grease, hydrocarbon 25
Selenium                       0.11
Silver                         0.17
Zinc                           1.48
 
      (2)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total
metal unless indicated otherwise. CW may impose mass limitations in addition to
the concentration-based limitations above.
   (C)   CW may develop BMPs by regulation or in individual wastewater
discharge permits to implement local limits and the requirements of §
50.021.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.025 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   CW reserves the right to establish, by regulation or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.026 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. CW may impose
mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements or in other cases when the imposition of
mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.027 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the CW
service area and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there
is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the
CW service area, is hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) above, except as provided for in §
50.028.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system and notice is provided in accordance
with §
50.028(B), a direct connection shall be made to the public system within 60
days in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and
filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.028 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
50.027, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the Ballard County Health Department and all applicable local and
state regulations.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by CW, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $15 shall be paid to CW at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, locations, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Health of the State of Kentucky. No permit shall be issued for any private
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where it
conflicts with County Health Department standards. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to CW.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable local or
state regulations.
   (G)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits may be excepted. Industries with
current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points
provided they are in compliance with the issuing authority.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.029 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage or
floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections that already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections,
leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be
separate from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of water without
presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public
sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.030 DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway. The sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but CW does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by CW, to meet all requirements of
this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new buildings using existing
building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. If additional
sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional sewer tap fees
shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer tap is actually made into
the CW system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer's
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinylchloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision, or
ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-151 cement lined, and shall meet
requirements of the State Plumbing Code. Joints shall be as set out
hereinafter. Any part of the building sewer that is located within five feet of
a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe or ductile
iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one foot deeper in the ground
than the water service line. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may be
required by CW where the building sewer is exposed to damage or stoppage by
tree roots. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used in filled or
unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building sewer is less than
three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject to vehicular or other
external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of CW.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
to the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify CW for any loss of damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by CW.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to CW.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the same building sewer.
Drainpipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above the
basement floor or in a separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
main line sewer tap. Where no property located service branch is available, an
authorized agent of CW shall cut a neat hole into the main line of the public
sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive the building sewer.
The invert of the building sewer at such point of connection with a saddle
shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the public sewer. A neat
workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner surface of the public
sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and watertight by encasement in
epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. This fitting shall serve the
purpose of a clean out and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the
line. After testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this
fitting and brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted
with a type joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against
the intrusion of ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.031 INSPECTION OF INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify CW when the
building sewer is ready for connection to the public sewer. The connection
shall be made under the supervision of CW or its representative. The
connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper
testing.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to the top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill. At the time of the test, any openings into
the building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any
leakage of smoke from the building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall
be located at the test and repaired to stand repetition of the smoke test
without leakage. When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug
shall be removed and a permanent watertight plug shall be placed in the branch
of the test wye-branch and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least
six inches above the top of the branch.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 50.032 GENERAL SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All users must pay all applicable capacity fees prior to Kentucky
Division of Water approval of plans for sewer extensions if applicable, or
prior to CW locating a tap on existing sewers. Capacity fees are not
transferable to other property. Authorization to connect to the CW sewer
obtained by payment of a capacity fee shall expire five years after payment if
such connection has not been completed. No capacity fee paid will be refunded
unless a written refund request is received by CW within 12 months of the date
the capacity fee is received by CW and it contains evidence satisfactory to CW
of the following:
      (1)   The developer has withdrawn all plans submitted to the Ballard
County Planning and Zoning Commission for the development; or
      (2)   The developer has obtained preliminary approval from the Ballard
County Planning and Zoning Commission for an amended development plan for the
same property and which depicts a development that requires a smaller capacity
fee; and
      (3)   The Kentucky Division of Water has approved all plans for sewers
that will serve the development in that amended development plan.
   (B)   A sewer connection, or tap on fee, shall be $500.
   (C)   Basic user charge. There is hereby established a basic user charge for
OM and R and a minimum monthly charge for operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement (OM and R) for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of CW.
      (1)   The basic user charge for OM and R shall be $1.17 per 1,000
gallons.
      (2)   The minimum monthly charge for OM and R shall be $2.34 entitling
the user to 2,000 gallons.
   (D)   Debt service charge. A debt service charge of $4.66 per month to each
user of the wastewater facility of CW is hereby established.
   (E)   All nonmetered residential users (if any) shall pay a flat rate
monthly charge based on the average residential water use (5,100 gallons) and
CW's current rate schedule.
   (F)   This flat rate is subject to annual adjustment and CW may require the
user to install a metering device if excess usage is suspected.
   (G)   Rate schedule. In accordance with EPA regulations, a User Charge/
Industrial Cost Recovery System (UC/ICRS) has been prepared using EPA
guidelines. The following are the rates and charges to be used by CW for its
sanitary sewage system in compliance with the UC/ICRS. The sanitary sewage
rates will be based on the number of gallons of water used by the customer. The
rates are as follows:
 
Water Usage                       Rates
First 1,000 gallons               $11.00 minimum
Next 1,001 - 5,000 gallons        $3.30 per 1,000 gallons
Next 5,001 gallons and thereafter $2.20 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (H)   Bills.
      (1)   The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly.
      (2)   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises and the service is furnished to the premises by CW only upon this
condition.
      (3)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by CW by the first day of
the month succeeding the period for which the service is billed.
      (4)   All sewer bills are due and payable ten days after being sent out.
A penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid by the fifteenth day
after they have been rendered.
   (I)   The rates and charges for the use and service of the water system of
CW shall be determined from time to time as necessary by the City Council and
shall be kept on file and available for public inspection in the office of the
City Clerk. The rates and charges shall be made and collected against each
consumer who shall directly or indirectly receive water from the system. The
rates and charges shall be based upon the quantity of water used by each
consumer, as measured by a water meter.
   (J)   Collection of water, sewer, and garbage bills.
      (1)   All water-sewer-garbage customers must pay their bills in a timely
fashion. Should any delinquent water-sewer-garbage bills become past due for
more than 60 days, or be in excess of $50, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall cause
to be filed in the records of the Ballard County Court Clerk’s Office a lien
against the property to which water-sewer-garbage service is being provided and
upon which the bill is delinquent as aforesaid and the owner shall be duly
notified of the filing of the said lien in accordance with the Kentucky Revised
Statutes. If any lender holds a prior lien on the said property, said lender
shall also be duly notified.
      (2)   In the case of a tenant having a delinquent water-sewer-garbage
bill, said lien shall be filed against the owner of the property and both the
owner and the tenant duly notified of the filing of the said lien in accordance
with the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (3)   Water-sewer-garbage service shall be discontinued at such time as
the delinquency amount is in excess of $50, or is delinquent in excess of 60
days, subject to the notice and hearing requirements set forth in division (J)
(6) below. Said service shall not be restored until the arrearage and
delinquency is completely satisfied in full and upon such restoration of
service a deposit in the amount of at least two months normal billing for said
property shall be required by way of a security deposit. Said deposit shall be
returned to the party paying the same upon discontinuance or termination of
said service, provided that all bills are paid, and the deposit shall bear
interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
      (4)   A copy of this section shall be duly advertised pursuant to
Kentucky law and a copy shall be provided to each new customer as service is
first obtained.
      (5)   A copy of this section and city policy regarding delinquent water-
sewer-garbage bills shall be sent to each water-sewer-garbage customer who
shall first become delinquent after the enactment hereof by as much as 20 days,
including all customers who have not paid the current months bill by the first
day of the following month.
      (6)   (a)   It is the policy of CW to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. CW's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
            1.   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
            2.   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
            3.   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in
writing his or her complaint and contentions to CW official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint.
         (b)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified,
but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30
days.
         (c)   When it becomes necessary for CW to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
   (K)   (1)   Whenever the City Council has declared any property in the city
to be unfit for human habitation, or for violation of any ordinance, it shall
be unlawful for any utility company to continue to provide utility service to
said location.
      (2)   In such cases, the utility company shall be immediately notified,
and requested to cease and terminate any utility service to said location.
      (3)   If necessary, the Mayor shall cause to be instituted a legal action
in the Ballard District Court for the purpose of obtaining a court order
authorizing and directing said utility company to cease and terminate such
utility service to said location.
   (L)   Revenues and accounts.
      (1)   Sewerage system.
         (a)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the
sewerage system shall be deposited in the sewerage account. All such revenues
and moneys shall be held by the City Clerk-Treasurer separate and apart from
all other funds of the city. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall receive all such
revenues from the sewerage system and all other funds and moneys incident to
the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him or her and
deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as the “Sewerage Revenue
Account.”
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts
and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and
correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage
system and at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system. In addition to the customary operating
statements, the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and
operating expenses of the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost,
to indicate that sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and
capital amounts required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery
system do in fact meet this chapter. In this regard, the financial information
to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
            1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater
plant for the current fiscal year;
            2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
            3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
            4.   Number of users connected to the system;
            5.   Number of nonmetered users; and
            6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial
users) and volume of waste discharged.
         (c)   A copy of the rate ordinance properly certified by the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall be legally advertised and posted and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of
the city on their properties.
         (d)   The Kentucky Department for Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or their authorized
representatives shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records
of the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges or
industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions of any federal/state grant.
      (2)   Water revenues and accounts.
         (a)   It is made the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to prepare or cause
to be prepared a complete and accurate list of all premises and properties
receiving the services of the water system, showing the name and address of the
occupant and of the owner of the same. The list shall be kept up to date and
shall be corrected from time to time to show changes in occupancy or ownership
of any such properties or premises.
         (b)   All moneys received as charges for the services of the water
system shall be deposited in a bank account separate and distinct from the bank
accounts in which other city funds are held. The funds shall be administered
and allocated in accordance with the provisions of the ordinance of the city
passed on January 19, 1961 authorizing the issuance of $138,000 water system
revenue bonds, or in accordance with any ordinance which may hereafter be
adopted to refund such bonds.
         (c)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to have set up and
maintain a proper system of accounts and records, separate from all other
accounts and records, showing the amount of revenue received from the water
system and the application of such revenues and all financial transactions in
connection therewith. Such accounts shall annually be audited properly by a
certified public accountant.
   (M)   Utility fee charges and requirements.
      (1)   In order to keep our financial position secure, meet bond
obligations, meet audit requirements and protect the people that pay for the
city services, the water deposit is being raised to $150 from the present $125
fee. The water deposit fee is applicable to renters/tenants/lessees,
homeowners, and businesses.
      (2)   If service is disconnected for non-payment, a "re-hook up" charge
of $50 will be paid before service is restored.
      (3)   All back due charges must be paid before service is restored.
      (4)   A $25 fee will be assessed for all return checks.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 665, passed 5-9-24)
§ 50.033 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FEES.
   (A)   CW may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating a pretreatment program if required to be developed, which may
include:
      (1)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the
cost of processing such applications;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures,
including the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge
procedures and construction;
      (4)   Fees for defending appeals;
      (5)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs associated with the
enforcement activity taken by CW to address IU noncompliance; and
      (6)   Other fees as CW may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by these
regulations and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by CW.
   (B)   Until such time as more specific fees are adapted, CW will determine
monthly the cost it incurred during the prior month to administer and operate
its pretreatment program and allocate that cost among its industrial users
based on CW’s estimate of the relative amount of effort required to implement
the pretreatment program for each industrial user sufficient to recover its
share of cost of the pretreatment program. Such fee shall be assessed monthly
and become due and payable within 30 days of receipt by the industrial user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 50.045 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
50.021 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or CW,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to CW
for review, and shall be acceptable to CW before such facilities are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to CW under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.046 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, CW may require users to restrict their
discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such
other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   CW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install and
maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-
control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of CW, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater
containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by CW, and shall be so located
to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be
inspected, cleaned, and repaired by the user at their expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.047 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   CW shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug
discharge control plan or other action to control slug discharges. CW may
require any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or
take such other action that may be necessary to control slug discharges.
Alternatively, CW may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at a minimum, the
following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying CW of any accidental or slug
discharge, as required by §
50.090; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.048 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by CW, and at such times as are established by CW. Such waste shall
not violate §§
50.020 et seq. or any other requirements established by CW. CW may require
septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   CW may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits. CW also may prohibit the disposal of hauled
industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all
other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by CW. No load may be discharged without prior consent of CW. CW may
collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
standards. CW may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
PERMITS
§ 50.060 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by CW, a user must submit information on the nature and
characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. CW is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update this information.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.061 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from CW,
except that a significant industrial user that has filed a timely application
pursuant to §
50.062 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   CW may require other users to obtain individual waste water discharge
permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
50.130 et seq., §§
50.145 et seq., and §§
50.160 et seq.. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.062 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
was discharging waste water into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
60 days after said date, apply to CW for an individual wastewater discharge
permit in accordance with §
50.064, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
60 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with an
individual wastewater discharge permit issued by CW.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.063 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
50.064, must be filed at least 60 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.064 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain an individual waste water discharge
permit must submit a permit application. CW may require users to submit all or
some of the following information as part of a permit application:
      (1)   Identifying information.
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner; and
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and
plant production processes on the premises.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
         (f)   Time and duration of discharges; and
         (g)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gpd, to the POTW from regulated process streams and
other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula
set out in §
50.021(C) (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by CW, of
regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process;
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported;
         (d)   1.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
50.094; and
            2.   Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by CW
or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard; and
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
50.095.
      (6)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on §
50.089(B) (40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)).
      (7)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by CW to evaluate
the permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.065 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; GENERAL PERMITS.
   CW will not use general permits to control SIU discharges to the POTW.
However, CW may develop and implement the use of general permits in the future
if appropriate.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.066 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
50.098(A).
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to CW prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by CW pursuant to §
50.004 must annually submit the signed certification statement in §
50.085(B).
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.067 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   CW will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional
information. Within 60 days of receipt of a complete permit application, CW
will determine whether to issue an individual wastewater discharge permit. CW
may deny any application for an individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.068 BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required: (1) for
residential; and (2) for service to commercial and industrial establishments.
In either case, the owner(s) or his agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by CW. Applicants for service to commercial and industrial
establishments shall be required to furnish information about all waste
producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the CW. Details regarding
commercial and industrial permits include, but are not limited to those
required by these regulations. Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to CW
at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify CW in advance of any introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the waste water constituents being introduced into the POTW. CW may deny or
condition the new introduction or change in discharge based on the information
submitted in the notification or additional information as may be requested.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining permission from the CW.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.069 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of CW. Each individual wastewater discharge
permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.070 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as
are deemed reasonably necessary by CW to prevent pass through or interference,
protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment plant’s effluent,
protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal,
and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to CW in accordance with §
50.073, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including BMPs, based on applicable pretreatment
standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
50.088(B);
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law;
      (7)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by CW to be
necessary; and
      (8)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by CW (§
50.088(B)) must be included as a condition in the user’s permit.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by CW to ensure compliance
with these regulations, and state and federal laws, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.071 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Permit appeals. CW shall provide notice of the issuance of an
individual wastewater discharge permit to the industrial user. The user may
petition CW to reconsider the terms of an individual wastewater discharge
permit within 30 days of notice of its issuance.
   (B)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (C)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the individual
wastewater discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this
objection, and the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (D)   The effectiveness of the individual wastewater discharge permit shall
not be stayed pending the appeal.
   (E)   If CW fails to act within 30 days, a request for reconsideration shall
be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider an individual wastewater
discharge permit, not to issue an individual wastewater discharge permit, or
not to modify an individual wastewater discharge permit shall be considered
final administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
   (F)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
individual wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint in the Ballard County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.072 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   CW may modify an individual wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the POTW, CW personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual wastewater
discharge permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
50.073.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.073 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 60 days advance notice
to CW and CW approves the individual wastewater discharge permit transfer. The
notice to CW must include a written certification by the new owner or operator
which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.074 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   CW may revoke an individual wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify CW of significant changes to the wastewater prior
to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to CW of changed conditions
pursuant to §
50.089;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow CW timely access to the facility premises and
records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or these regulations.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.075 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply
for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with §
50.064, a minimum of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.076 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, CW shall enter into an interlocal agreement
with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above, CW
shall request the following information from the contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as CW may deem necessary.
   (C)   An interlocal agreement, as required by division (A), above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt sewer use
regulations which are at least as stringent as these regulations and local
limits, including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs) which are at
least as stringent as those set out in §
50.024. The requirement shall specify that such regulations and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the CW regulations or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by CW; and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
CW;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide CW with
access to all information that the contributing municipality obtains as part of
its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring CW access to the facilities of users located
within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional boundaries for the
purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary by CW;
and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the interlocal agreement.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.085 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to CW a report which contains the information listed
in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical industrial users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to CW a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   All information required in §
50.064(A)(1)(a), §
50.064(A)(2), §
50.064(A)(3)(a), and §
50.064(A)(4);
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
50.064(A)(5)(a) through (d);
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division;
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where an
alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40
CFR 403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted
to the control authority;
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
50.094;
         (e)   CW may allow the submission of a baseline report which utilizes
only historical data so long as the data provides information sufficient to
determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures; and
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW;
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative as defined in §
50.004 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O and M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O and M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O and M must be
provided. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A
compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out
in §
50.086; and
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
50.098(A) and signed by an authorized representative as defined in §
50.004.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.086 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
50.085(B)(4):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to CW no later than 14 days
following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance including,
as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of progress, the
reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to
return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to CW.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.087 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to CW a report
containing the information described in §
50.064(A)(4) and (5) and §
50.085(B)(2). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
50.022, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.098(A). All sampling will be done in conformance with §
50.095.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All SIUs are required to submit periodic compliance reports even if
they have been designated a non-significant categorical industrial user under
the provisions of division (D) below.
   (B)   Except as specified in division (D) below, all significant industrial
users must, at a frequency determined by CW submit no less than twice per year
(June and December or on dates specified) reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance
with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit
documentation required by CW or the pretreatment standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the user.
   (C)   CW may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. This authorization is subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to be
present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided
that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable categorical
standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater;
      (2)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit (see § 50.064(A)(6));
      (3)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility’s
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes;
      (4)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user in accordance with §
50.004, and include the certification statement in §
50.098(A) (40 CFR 403.6(a)(2)(ii));
      (5)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis;
      (6)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by CW must be included as a
condition in the user’s permit. The reasons supporting the waiver and any
information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by CW for three years after expiration of the waiver;
      (7)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user’s
permit by CW, the industrial user must certify on each report with the
statement in §
50.098(C) below that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its
wastestream due to activities of the industrial user;
      (8)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user’s operations,
the user must immediately: comply with the monitoring requirements of division
(B) above, or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by CW, and
notify CW; and
      (9)   This division does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (D)   (1)   CW may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance reports to
a requirement to report no less frequently than once a year, unless required
more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the EPA or Kentucky Division
of Water, where the industrial user’s total categorical wastewater flow does
not exceed any of the following:
         (a)   Five thousand (5,000) gallons per day as measured by a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the industrial user
discharges in batches;
         (b)   Organic loadings in amounts which exceed CWWWTP's limits for
BOD, TSS, and ammonia; and
         (c)   One one-hundredth percent (0.01%) of the maximum allowable
headworks loading for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical
pretreatment standard for which approved local limits were developed in
accordance with §
50.024.
      (2)   Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have in
the last two years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in §
50.125. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an industrial user
with daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels that vary so
significantly that, in the opinion of CW, decreasing the reporting requirement
for this industrial user would result in data that are not representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (E)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
50.098(A).
   (F)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Waste water monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (G)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by CW, using the procedures prescribed in §
50.095, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.089 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each user must notify CW of any significant changes to the user’s
operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its
wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (B)   CW may require the user to submit such information as may be deemed
necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of a
wastewater discharge permit application under §
50.064.
   (C)   CW may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit under §
50.075 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
50.072 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.090 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug discharge or slug load that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify CW of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective
actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by CW, submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the
discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future
occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who could cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify CW immediately of
any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug discharge.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.091 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual waste water discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to CW as CW may require.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.092 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
CW within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also
repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis
to CW within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling by the
industrial user is not required if CW performs sampling at the user’s facility
at least once a month, or if CW performs sampling at the user between the time
when the initial sampling was conducted and the time when the user or CW
receives the results of this sampling, or if CW has performed the sampling and
analysis in lieu of the industrial user. If CW performed the sampling and
analysis in lieu of the industrial user, CW will perform the repeat sampling
and analysis unless it notifies the user of the violation and requires the user
to perform the repeat sampling and analysis.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 50.093 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this division need be submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions
must be submitted under §
50.089. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
50.085,
50.087, and
50.088.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of non-
acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a
one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more
than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify CW, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities of
the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This division does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by these regulations, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.094 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments
thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by CW or other parties approved by EPA.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.095 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report and based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (B)   Except as indicated in divisions (C) and (D) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by CW. Where time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling
is authorized by CW, the samples must be representative of the discharge. Using
protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 CFR Part 136 and
appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour
period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total
phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the
field; for volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited
in the laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be
authorized by CW, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to
show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (C)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (D)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §§
50.085 and
50.087 (40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be used
for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic
compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for
facilities for which historical sampling data are available, CW may authorize a
lower minimum. For the reports required by §
50.088 (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.096 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   The due date for all correspondence required to be submitted to CW shall be
governed by the date of receipt. Correspondence which is postmarked prior to
the due date but which is not received by CW until after the due date shall be
deemed late and may incur a violation.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.097 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of these regulations shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by these
regulations, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with best management practices established under §
50.025(C). Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or CW, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention
period by CW.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.098 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
50.066; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
50.085(B)(5); users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
50.087; users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
50.088(A) through (D); and users submitting an initial request to forego
sampling of a pollutant on the basis of §
50.088(C)(4). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
50.004:
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (B)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial user by CW
pursuant to §
50.004 and §
50.066(C) must annually submit the following certification statement signed in
accordance with the signatory requirements in §
50.004. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by CW:
"Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR, I certify
that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the period from      ,
     , to      ,       [months, days, year]:
(a)   The facility described as                               [facility name]
met the definition of a non-significant categorical industrial user as
described in §
50.004;
(b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements during this reporting period; and
(c) the facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total categorical
wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
      This compliance certification is based on the following information.
                                                                                                      
                                                                                                      "
   (C)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on §
50.088(C) must certify on each report with the following statement that there
has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of
the user.
"Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40 CFR       [specify applicable
national pretreatment standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of        [list
pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since
filing of the last periodic report under §
50.088 (A).
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 50.110 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   CW shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine
whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter and any
individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall
allow CW ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties.
   (B)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, CW shall be permitted to enter without delay for
the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (C)   CW shall have the right to set up on the user’s property, or require
installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or
metering of the user’s operations.
   (D)   CW may require the user to install monitoring equipment as necessary.
The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own expense.
All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated
annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of CW and shall not be replaced. The costs of
clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing CW access to the user’s premises shall
be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.111 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If CW has been refused access to a building, structure, or property, or any
part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there
may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or
sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of CW designed to
verify compliance with these regulations or any permit or order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the
community, CW may seek issuance of a search warrant from the appropriate Court
of Kentucky.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 50.120 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data obtained from a user from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from CW inspection and sampling activities, will be
available to the public to the extent such is contained in a public record that
is not exempt from inspection pursuant to KRS 61.878. Any claim that
information is exempt from public inspection must be asserted at the time of
submission. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing information
that information is exempt from public inspection shall not be made available
to the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request to
governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
information. Wastewater characteristics and other effluent data, as defined in
40 CFR 2.302 shall not be considered exempt from public inspection and shall be
made available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 50.125 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   CW shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the CW
POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous 12 months,
were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates
divisions (C), (D) or (H) below and shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six- month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §§
50.020 et seq.;
   (B)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by §§
50.020 et seq. multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats,
oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §§
50.020 et seq. (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or
narrative standard) that CW determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in CW's exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of BMPs, which
CW determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the
local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.130 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When CW finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, CW may
serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within 30 days of the
receipt of such notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted by the user to CW. Submission of such a plan in no
way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this subchapter shall limit the
authority of CW to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.131 CONSENT ORDERS.
   CW may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for
noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
50.133 and
50.134 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.132 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   CW may order a user which has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear
before CW and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 14 days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user
as defined in §
50.004 and designated in accordance with by §
50.066(A). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.133 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When CW finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, CW may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the
user come into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come
into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances
are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other
requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring
and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants
discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for
compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.134 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When CW finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that
the user’s past violations are likely to recur, CW may issue an order to the
user directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the
user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.135 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When CW finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, CW may
fine such user in an amount of up to and including $1,000 per violation. Such
fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of
monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed
for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 2% per month. A lien against the user’s property
shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
CW to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount within 15
days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, CW may convene a
hearing on the matter. In the event the user’s appeal is successful, the
payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the
user. CW may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions,
such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.136 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   CW may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after informal notice
to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. CW may also
immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to
respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which
presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, CW may take such
steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. CW may allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of CW that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
50.137 are initiated against the user.
   (C)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to CW prior to the date of any show cause or
termination hearing under §§
50.132 or
50.137
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.137 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
50.074, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
50.020 et seq.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
50.132 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
CW shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.145 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When CW finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, CW may
file an action in the Ballard County Circuit Court to seek a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. CW may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.146 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
CW for a maximum civil penalty of up to and including $1,000 per violation, per
day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit,
penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   (B)   CW may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by CW.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.147 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A user who willfully, knowingly or intentionally violates any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement may, upon
conviction, be found guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of at least
$1000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than one year, or
both.
   (B)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least $1,000, or be
subject to imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. This penalty shall
be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property
damage available under state law.
   (C)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under these regulations shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
of not more than $5,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more
than one year, or both.
   (D)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $3,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than three years, or both.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.148 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. CW may take
any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant user.
Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with
CW's enforcement response plan. However, CW may take other action against any
user when the circumstances warrant. Further, CW is empowered to take more than
one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 50.160 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to CW within 24
hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided orally, a
written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.161 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
50.021(A) or the specific prohibitions in §§
50.021(B)(3) through (B)(17), but excluding (B)(8), if it can prove that it did
not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference
and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when CW was regularly
in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference, was in
compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
§ 50.162 BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Bypass notifications.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to CW, at least ten days before the date of the bypass, if
possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to cw of an unanticipated bypass
that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24 hours from the time it
becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within
five days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
CW may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has
been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and CW may take an enforcement action against
a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   CW may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse
effects, if CW determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in
division (D)(1) above.
(Ord. 653, passed 11-15-21)
CHAPTER 51: WELLHEAD PROTECTION
Section
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Purpose
   
51.03   Substances regulated
   
51.04   Establishment of primary protection zones
   
51.05   Restrictions within the primary protection zone
   
51.06   Establishment of management zones
   
51.07   Restrictions within management zones
   
51.08   Exemptions
   
51.09   Conflicting provisions
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Wellhead Protection Ordinance
of the city.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is the protection of health, life, resources,
and property through the regulation of hazardous substance transport and
storage and related aspects of land use and development in the vicinity of any
well that supplies potable water to the city water system.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
§ 51.03 SUBSTANCES REGULATED.
   The materials regulated by this chapter shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Petroleum products including fuels (gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene,
and mixtures of these products), lubricating oils, motor oils, hydraulic
fluids, and other similar products.
   (B)   Substances listed in 401 KAR Chapter 30 and the Federal Hazardous
Waste List.
   (C)   Substances other than those listed on the Federal Hazardous Waste List
that are determined by state or federal agencies to pose a significant threat
to any community water supply well or well field.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
§ 51.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONES.
   A primary protection zone shall be established and include an area extending
not less than 200 feet radially from any well supplying potable water to the
city.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
§ 51.05 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN THE PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of a
hazardous substance (including herbicide and pesticide) to the soils,
groundwater, or surface water within the primary protection zone. Any person
knowing or having evidence of a discharge shall report such information to the
appropriate water system personnel.
   (B)   New sanitary landfills are prohibited within the primary protection
zone.
   (C)   The use, handling, production, and storage of hazardous substances is
prohibited in the primary protection zone except as provided under §
51.08.
   (D)   Feedlots or other concentrated animal facilities are prohibited within
the primary protection zone.
   (E)   Wastewater treatment plants are prohibited within the primary
protection zone.
   (F)   Septic tanks are prohibited within the primary protection zone.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF MANAGEMENT ZONES.
   (A)   Additional protection beyond the primary protection zone shall be
accomplished by the establishment of management zones. The first management
zone shall begin at a point or points not less than 200 feet radially from any
community water supply well and extend outward to a point or points as
determined by the Wellhead Protection Area Planning Committee of the city.
   (B)   Subsequent and additional management zones may be established whenever
it is determined that the wellhead protection area needs to be expanded to
provide adequate protection for the groundwater within and/or adjacent to the
wellhead protection area.
   (C)   The Wellhead Protection Area Planning Committee, using acceptable
methods, shall determine the size, shape, and location of each management zone.
The boundaries of each management zone shall be proposed and submitted for
approval to the City Council.
   (D)   The boundaries of management zone one shall begin at a point or points
along the outer perimeter of the primary protection zone and extend outward to
all points within and including the city limit boundaries. Furthermore, as the
city limit boundaries are extended or changed, the management zone one
boundaries shall be extended or changed in like manner and simultaneously.
   (E)   The boundaries of management zone two shall include all the area
extending between the primary protection zone and/or the management zone one
outer perimeter and a minimum of one mile radially from any well supplying
water to the city.
   (F)   The area within the management zone two shall be managed by conducting
a public education program to inform the property owners of the need for and
methods of wellhead protection. If additional management methods are necessary,
the appropriate governing bodies with jurisdiction over the area within the
management zone two shall be notified.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
§ 51.07 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN MANAGEMENT ZONES.
   (A)   Restrictions within each management zone shall be determined by a
Wellhead Protection Area Planning Committee. The Planning Committee or their
appointee shall conduct a survey of the wellhead area and identify the
potential sources of contamination therein. After assessing the local
groundwater protection needs, the method or combination of management methods
shall be submitted for approval to the City Council.
   (B)   Management options may include limits on certain activities, more
stringent design and operating standards, strict monitoring of potential
pollution sources, promoting best management practices, and/or implementing
education programs. The first management option shall be the implementation of
a public education program.
   (C)   The restrictions, if any, within each management zone may be modified
periodically to provide additional protection or to prevent future groundwater
contamination.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
§ 51.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities or uses are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   The transportation of any hazardous substance through the well field
protection area, provided the transporting vehicle is in transit.
   (B)   The use of herbicides and pesticides is prohibited within the primary
protection zone but is allowed within the management zones, provided best
management practices are used or it is determined that the use of such
herbicides and pesticides does not pose a serious threat to the groundwater.
   (C)   The use of any hazardous substance solely as fuel in a vehicle, fuel
tank or as lubricant in a vehicle.
   (D)   Fire, police, emergency medical services, emergency management center
facilities, or public utility transmission facilities.
   (E)   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous substances
for resale in their original unopened containers.
   (F)   Consumer products limited to use at a facility solely for janitorial
or minor maintenance purposes.
   (G)   Consumer products located in the home which are used for personal,
family, or household purposes.
   (H)   The storage and use of hazardous substances as fuel or lubricant to
provide auxiliary power for emergency use to the well field, provided an
enclosed secondary containment system is provided for the hazardous substance.
   (I)   The use of water treatment chemicals connected with the operation of
the well.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
§ 51.09 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In case of a conflict between this chapter, or any part thereof, and the
whole or part of any existing or future ordinances, the provisions of the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 488, passed - -92)
CHAPTER 52: GAS SYSTEM RATES
Section
   
52.01   Establishment of rates and charges
   
52.02   Authority of Council to establish special rates
   
52.03   Meter use and billing procedure
   
52.04   Services furnished to occupant; application for service
   
52.05   Connections; connection charge
   
52.06   Clerk-Treasurer to maintain list of properties receiving gas services
   
52.07   Disposition of funds; system of accounts and records
   
52.08   Duty of city officials to collect charges
   
52.09   Increase in rates
§ 52.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for the use and services of the natural gas
transmission and distribution system of the city shall be established from time
to time as necessary by the City Council. All such applicable rates shall be
kept on file and be available for public inspection in the office of the City
Clerk. The rates and charges shall be made and collected against each consumer
who shall directly or indirectly receive gas from the gas system. The rates and
charges shall be based upon the quantity of gas used by each consumer, as
measured by the gas meter. The charges shall be computed on a monthly basis.
There will be classes of customers as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58; Am. Ord. 441, passed 9-17-81)
§ 52.02 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO ESTABLISH SPECIAL RATES.
   The City Council reserves the right to impose rates and charges where gas is
furnished in circumstances which make the above rates unjust, inadequate or
inequitable, and to fix and impose special charges where interruptable service
is given.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58)
§ 52.03 METER USE AND BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Gas shall be supplied only through meter and the meter shall be read
monthly by a representative of the city. Bills shall be sent out within the
first ten days of the month following the reading of the meter. Such bills
shall be sent out and shall be collected by a representative of the city.
   (B)   If any such bill shall not be paid on or before the expiation of ten
days from date thereof a penalty of 10% of the amount of the bill shall be
added thereto and collected therewith. If any such bill shall remain delinquent
in excess of $50 or for longer than 60 days, gas service shall be disconnected,
subject to the notice and hearing requirements set forth in §
50.60(F), and shall not be reconnected except upon payment of all delinquent
bills, together with a connection charge of as determined from time to time by
the City Council. In case of a change in the occupancy of any premises the new
occupant shall not be charged with the delinquencies of the prior occupant, but
the gas shall be reconnected upon the payment of the reconnection charge as
determined from time to time by the City Council. A disconnection charge as
determined from time to time by the City Council shall be made in each instance
where service is disconnected.
   (C)   (1)   Upon vacation by a tenant of his or her rented premises, and
there being an unpaid bill for natural gas consumption which has not been paid
within ten days from its due date, service to that premises shall be
disconnected.
      (2)   Service shall be reconnected only when the delinquent account has
been paid by the vacating party, the landlord, from the deposit, if any, or any
other party.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58; Am. Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99; Am. Ord. 558, passed 6-
1-04)
§ 52.04 SERVICES FURNISHED TO OCCUPANT; APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   The services of the gas system shall be deemed to be furnished to the
occupant of the premises receiving such services and shall be deemed an
obligation of the occupant of any such premises. The services of the gas system
shall be given to any premises only upon written application therefor, made by
the owner or occupant. Such application shall be made to the proper
representative of the city and shall be upon a form to be supplied by him.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58)
§ 52.05 CONNECTIONS; CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Service connections to the gas system shall be constructed only after
the issuance of a permit therefor by or on authority of the City Council. The
connection charge of each such connection shall be $10.
   (B)   All service connections shall comply with the Code of the American Gas
Association and the National Board of Fire Underwriters or Southern Standard
Building Code Part Two (Gas), and shall comply with all rules and regulations
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or of its duly constituted authorities.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58)
§ 52.06 CLERK-TREASURER TO MAINTAIN LIST OF PROPERTIES RECEIVING GAS SERVICES.
   It is hereby made the duty of the City Clerk-Treasurer to prepare or cause
to be prepared a complete and accurate list of all premises and properties
receiving the services of the gas system, showing the name and address of the
occupant and of the owner of the same. The list shall be kept up to date and
shall be corrected from time to time to show changes in the occupancy or
ownership of any of such properties or premises.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58)
§ 52.07 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS; SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   All moneys received as charges for the services of the gas system
shall be deposited in a bank account separate and distinct from the bank
accounts in which other city funds are held. The funds shall be administered
and allocated in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance passed on
October 11, 1957, as amended December 27, 1957, authorizing the issuance of
$243,000 natural gas system revenue bonds or in accordance with any ordinance
which may hereafter be adopted to refund such bonds.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to have set up and maintain a
proper system of accounts and records separate from all other accounts and
records, showing the amount of revenues received from the gas system and the
application of such revenues and all financial transactions in connection
therewith. Such accounts shall annually be audited properly by an independent
public accountant.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58)
§ 52.08 DUTY OF CITY OFFICIALS TO COLLECT CHARGES.
   It shall be the duty of the officials of the city diligently to collect the
charges imposed by this chapter and to employ the proper means for the
collection thereof.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58)
§ 52.09 INCREASE IN RATES.
   Any increase in the wholesale cost of natural gas will result in an
automatic and immediate increase in the retail rates of 110% of the wholesale
increase of natural gas; any charges or taxes that may be levied in the future
by the state or other public bodies against the sale or consumers of natural
gas will likewise result in an automatic and immediate increase in the retail
rates of an equal and like amount.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-2-58; Am. Ord. 441, passed 9-17-81)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   City to advertise for bids for collection franchise
   
53.02   Residential and commercial charges
   
53.03   Authority of city to establish rules and regulations
   
53.04   Environmental remediation fee
   
53.05   Distribution of charges among all users
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Collection of water-sewage-garbage bills, delinquencies, see §
50.60
§ 53.01 CITY TO ADVERTISE FOR BIDS FOR COLLECTION FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The City Council shall advertise for bids for a franchise for the
collection of solid waste for the city and to any and all users of city water
outside the city limits.
   (B)   The franchise shall include all residential, commercial, business,
industrial, professional and institutional properties within the city.
   (C)   Bidders for the franchise shall make an assessment of all commercial,
business, industrial, professional and institutional needs in terms of volume
and frequency of pickup for each property and shall submit bids either based on
individual properties or categories of properties or both.
(Ord. 466, passed 7-7-87)
§ 53.02 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CHARGES.
   Schedule of fees for sanitation services. The schedule of fees for
sanitation services provided to residential and commercial clients shall be as
set forth below; rates may be subject to 3% annual cost adjustment per
franchise agreement:
   (A)   Residential.
 
                                                     Year 1, Rate per Month
96-gallon cart, one time per week inside city limits $11.69
Additional cart inside city limits                   $3
Outside city limits                                  $17.41
 
   (B)   Commercial.
 
                                Year 1, Rate per Month
2cy dumpster EOW                $60
4cy dumpster EOW                $70
2cy dumpster, one time per week $90
4cy dumpster, one time per week $120
6cy dumpster, one time per week $130
8cy dumpster, one time per week $140
 
(Ord. 466, passed 7-7-87; Am. Ord. 556, passed 12-2-03; Am. Ord. 599, passed 6-
5-12; Am. Ord. 602, passed 4-2-13; Am. Ord. 647, passed 5-13-21)
§ 53.03 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO ESTABLISH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city shall have the power to establish rules and regulations concerning
pick-up days, types of containers, types of refuse to be included, and other
operational rules and regulations.
(Ord. 466, passed 7-7-87)
§ 53.04 ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION FEE.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2003, all Kentucky landfills and transfer
stations are required to collect and remit to the Cabinet for Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection, an environmental remediation fee of $1.75 per ton
of solid waste collected.
   (B)   The fee of $0.35 per month will be added to all customers being
serviced in and under the Wickliffe service area. This section will cover any
additional charges that may be imposed by House Bill 174 in the future.
(Ord. 550, passed 2-4-2003)
§ 53.05 DISTRIBUTION OF CHARGES AMONG ALL USERS.
   Various charges may be imposed on the city either by the State General
Assembly, other government agencies or by the collection firm. These charges
shall be equally distributed to all people or businesses serviced and billed by
the city regardless of previous exceptions either by the age clause or the
maximum fee.
(Ord. 556, passed 12-2-03)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, property owner, business industry or institution who fails to
pay the monthly fee established by the City Council in accordance with this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of $25 per each failure to so perform.
(Ord. 466, passed 7-7-87)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND GOLF CARTS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Licensing
   
70.35   License required
   
70.36   Application
   
70.37   License tax amounts
   
70.38   Licenses for less than one year
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk- Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
LICENSING
§ 70.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, individual, corporation, or company
residing in the city to use or operate any automobile or motor vehicle for
pleasure, hire or business, within the limits of the city, without first having
obtained a license to use and operate the same and paid the necessary license
fee therefor, as hereinafter provided. Such license shall also be required of
all persons, individuals, corporations or companies residing outside the city
limits and owning and operating or causing to be operated any automobile or
motor vehicle upon and over the streets thereof in connection with a business
conducted, or regular occupation followed within the city limits, or as a means
of conveyance to and from a position, job or labor for which remuneration is
received from such business or occupation in the city.
(Ord. 337, passed 11-5-51) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each and every person, corporation or company owning or operating a
motor vehicle in the city, shall immediately upon the acquirement thereof, make
application to the City Clerk-Treasurer for the licensing thereof, and shall
furnish to the City Clerk-Treasurer the name and address of the owner thereof,
the name of the motor vehicle, the capacity or tonnage rating thereof, and the
number of the license furnished the owner by the State of Kentucky.
   (B)   All license fees imposed, levied and collected from both resident and
nonresident operators of automobiles and motor vehicles under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be paid into and become a part of the general fund, the
same to be used for the purpose of paying the expenses of maintaining the city
government.
(Ord. 337, passed 11-5-51)
§ 70.37 LICENSE TAX AMOUNTS.
   (A)   The license tax required to be paid hereunder is as follows:
      (1)   For each motorcycle   $1
      (2)   For each and every passenger vehicle   $5
      (3)   For each and every truck   $5
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer is authorized, empowered and directed to
collect the license tax provided herein, which shall be payable on and after
the first day of January in each year. If such license tax is not paid on or
before the first day of March of each year, there shall be added a penalty of
$2. The City Clerk-Treasurer is directed and required to collect such penalties
from any person who owns and fails to pay such a license tax when due. The
license certificate or sticker issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be
displayed in the lower right hand corner of the windshield on the licensed
vehicle.
(Ord. 337, passed 11-5-51; Am. Ord. 391-A, passed 2-6-67; Am. Ord. 435, passed
12-2-80; Am. Ord. 442, passed 12-10-81)
§ 70.38 LICENSES FOR LESS THAN ONE YEAR.
   Any person, corporation or company acquiring a motor vehicle after the first
day of March shall pay the pro rata portion of license tax, but in no event
shall such license tax be for a less period of time than six months. Any
person, corporation or company acquiring a motor vehicle after the first day of
March shall have 30 days from the date of acquisition to secure a license
certificate or sticker from the City Clerk-Treasurer, and if such license
certificate or sticker is not secured and paid for within 30 days from the date
of acquisition of the motor vehicle a penalty of $1 shall be added to the
amount of the license tax due thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation or company to transfer from one motor vehicle to another any
license issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and whenever any
motor vehicle for which a license has been issued changes ownership, such
license shall remain on the motor vehicle as a part thereof until the
expiration of the year in which the license was issued.
(Ord. 337, passed 11-5-51; Am. Ord. 391-A, passed 2-6-67)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Vehicles prohibited on city streets and property
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
Buses, Trucks, and Commercial Vehicles
   
71.65   Bus and commercial vehicle routes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) above shall be
subject to revocation of his or her operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into,
park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle
has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or she is
directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) below shall apply to any driver
approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes,
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS AND PROPERTY.
   Vehicles banned from city streets and property include all-terrain vehicles
(ATV's), go-carts, unregistered off-road motorized dirt bikes (two, three or
four wheeled), snowmobiles or any other motorized apparatus which would appear
to be used for the principal use of recreation, including hunting, fishing,
trail riding and farm or other business usages.
(Ord. 546, passed 3-5-02) Penalty, see §
71.99(C)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
BUSES, TRUCKS, AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 71.65 BUS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE ROUTES.
   (A)   U.S. Highways Numbers 51, 60 and 62, and Kentucky Highways Numbers 286
and 440 are hereby designated as routes for buses and commercial vehicles in
going through the city. In addition to the above designated federal and state
highways, the following streets in the city are hereby designated for use and
travel by buses and commercial vehicles:
      (1)   Court Street from Fourth to Third Street
      (2)   Third Street between Court and Ohio Streets
      (3)   Ohio Street between Third and Fourth Streets.
   (B)   All commercial buses and commercial vehicles are restricted to the use
of the above designated highways and streets in going through the city.
(Ord. 332, passed 6-5-50) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   Whoever violates §
71.28 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First Offense      $75.00
      (2)   Second Offense   $250.00
      (3)   Third Offense   Impoundment of vehicle or vehicles and fine of at
least $300 and court costs
(Ord. 546, passed 3-5-02)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
      (2)   On a sidewalk.
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway.
      (5)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk.
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device.
      (8)   On any controlled access highway.
      (9)   Within a highway tunnel.
      (10)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
      (11)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
      (12)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing, or cause or
permit it to stop or to be left standing upon the main traveled portion of a
highway or street within the city limits, provided, however, that this section
shall not be construed to prohibit parking off the main traveled portion of a
highway or street in the city. This section shall not apply to a vehicle that
has been disabled while on the main traveled portion of such a highway or
street in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid the
occupation of the main traveled portion or impracticable to remove it from the
highway or street until repairs have been made or sufficient help obtained for
its removal and shall not apply to wreckers at the scene of accidents or
emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon such a
highway or street in violation of division (A) of this section, the officer may
move the vehicle or require the operator or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move it to a position off the paved or improved or main traveled
part of the highway or street.
      (3)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any such prohibited area.
      (4)   Where parking is permitted off the main traveled portion of a
highway or street and the parking area is marked off or laid out indicating the
place and manner of parking, any vehicle parked or stopped within the parking
area shall be parked in such a manner that the vehicle so parked shall be
within the traffic lines governing the parking area.
      (5)   Any person operating a vehicle on the highways and streets of the
city shall operate the vehicle having due regard for the safety and welfare of
the traveling public and shall observe all stop signs and traffic control
devices.
      (6)   As used in the section, the word STREET shall include all alleys
within the city.
      (7)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall
be fined as set forth in §
72.99. All revenue derived under this section shall be credited to the general
fund for general operating expenses.
(Ord. 345, passed 9-2-52) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any person who leaves or parks a motor vehicle, licensed or
unlicensed, on the untraveled portion of a city street, alley, or property
belonging to the city for a longer period than 30 days and under circumstances
indicating abandonment, and the parking or leaving of a motor vehicle on the
untraveled portion of a street, alley, or other city property shall be prima
facie evidence of abandonment, shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99.
   (B)   Any such vehicle so allowed to remain on the untraveled portion of a
city street, alley, or other city property shall be towed away by officers,
agents, or employees of the city. In addition to other penalties provided in
this chapter, the cost of towing and any storage charges which may accrue shall
be paid by the owner of the vehicle before such vehicle is released from the
custody of the city.
   (C)   (1)   Any such vehicle which is towed away by officers, agents, or
employees of the city and which is not claimed by the owner thereof or his or
her authorized agent within 60 days may be sold to pay towing and storage
charges, which shall constitute a lien against the vehicle within the meaning
of this section. The proposed sale shall be advertised at least three times in
some newspaper of general circulation in the city, the last advertisement to be
made at least six days before the sale is held, and notice thereof shall be
sent by registered mail to any person known to have any interest in the vehicle
at the person's last known address at least ten days before the sale is held.
      (2)   A transfer of registration shall be issued to the purchaser by the
county clerk. The person in whose name the vehicle was last registered shall
comply with the provisions of KRS 186.190 to accomplish the purpose of this
section.
   (D)   If the vehicle is unfit for future use, the city may dispose of it for
its salvage value in the same manner as provided in division (C) of this
section.
(Ord. 392, passed 4-3-67) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 -
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division (A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and identification number of the vehicle,
the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges for towing,
recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on the
vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928 shall have a
lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275
(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance with KRS
281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lien holder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing lien holder
pursuant to division (C).
   (C)   (1)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division (C) is not
sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days
of storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lien holder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (C)(5)
above.
   (D)   If there are no lien holders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(2)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of
parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Golf carts
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
   (D)   Bicyclists must obey all state laws when riding on the city streets
within and without Wickliffe for lane usage and obey those state laws
applicable when on city streets, which are enforceable by the Ballard County
Sheriff’s Office.
(Am. Ord. 605, passed 8-6-13) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
         (a)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
         (b)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
         (c)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
         (d)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
         (e)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
         (f)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
         (g)   Is equipped with the following:
            1.   Headlamps;
            2.   Taillamps;
            3.   Stop lamps;
            4.   Front and rear turn signals;
            5.   One red reflex reflector on each side as far to the rear as
practicable, and one red reflex reflector on the rear;
            6.   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or
an interior mirror;
            7.   A parking brake;
            8.   For each designated seating position, a seatbelt assembly that
conforms to the federal motor vehicle safety standard provided in 49 C.F.R. §
571.500; and
            9.   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080.
   (B)   Requirements. In order to be operated within the City of Wickliffe, a
golf cart shall:
      (1)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the City of Wickliffe;
      (2)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city;
      (3)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Ballard
County Sheriff's Office and certified through the Department of Vehicle
Regulation to ensure that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this
section. The inspection fee under this division shall be $5 if the inspection
occurs at the Sheriff's inspection site or $10 per trip charged if it becomes
necessary for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart
rather than having the golf cart brought to the Sheriff's inspection site;
      (4)   Display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS
189.820;
      (5)   Be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or
operator, and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times
of operation on a public roadway;
      (6)   Be operated only between sunrise and sunset;
      (7)   Be operated by a person with a valid operator's license in his or
her possession; and
      (8)   Be restricted such that the operation of a golf cart does not cross
any roadway at an intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted
speed limit of more than 35 miles per hour and does not cross any state route
that has been prohibited by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet.
   (C)   Designated roadways. Golf carts that otherwise comply with the
provisions of this section and KRS 189.820 may be operated on any city roadway
where the posted speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less.
   (D)   Traffic regulations. Any person operating a golf cart on a public
roadway under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to all traffic
regulations of KRS Chapter 189 and any other applicable provisions of this Code
of Ordinances pertaining to the operation of vehicles upon county streets and
roadways.
   (E)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Golf carts operating on a public roadway are not to be considered a
motor vehicle and are exempt from:
         (a)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
         (b)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
         (c)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
      (2)   The provisions of these sections shall not apply to a golf cart
that is not used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following
a golf cart path on a golf course.
   (F)   Penalty and enforcement.
      (1)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction of a first offense, be guilty of a violation and be fined not less
than $100 and not more than $250. Any person convicted of a subsequent
violation of this section within two years of a prior conviction under this
section, shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500.
      (2)   Enforcement of this section shall be delegated to the Ballard
County Sheriff's Department.
(Ord. 605, passed 8-6-13; Am. Ord. 651, passed 11-10-21)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Speed limits
      
III.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Traffic on the following streets shall be limited to the direction
indicated.
 
Street                           Location                             Direction
Ninth Street                     From Court Street to Broadway        Southerly
                                 From Broadway to Ky. St. Highway 121
Tenth Street                     between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and   Northerly
                                 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
                                 during the school term
Alley running north and south    From Court Street to Ohio Street      
between Third and Fourth Streets
 
(Ord. 418, passed 11-4-75; Am. Ord. 419, passed 1-5-76; Am. Ord. 474, passed 6-
13-89) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   A maximum speed limit as indicated is hereby established for all
vehicles operated on and over the following streets:
Street Location Speed Limit
                (m.p.h.)
Street            Location                                    Speed Limit
                                                              (m.p.h.)
Broadway                                                     25
Cumberland Street                                            25
Court Street      From Fourth Street to the Mississippi River 25
Eighth Street                                                25
Fifth Street                                                 25
First Street                                                 25
Green Street      East of Fourth Street                       25
Illinois                                                     25
Missouri                                                     25
Ninth Street                                                 25
Ohio Street                                                  25
Second Street                                                25
Seventh Street                                               25
Sixth Street      From Illinois to Lee Street                 25
Tennessee Street                                             25
Tenth Street                                                 25
Third Street                                                 25
Wisconsin Avenue                                             25
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this schedule, shall
upon conviction, be fined as set forth and prescribed in KRS 189.394, which is
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(Ord. 371, passed 11-7-60)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following are four-way stop intersections:
   Fourth Street and Court Street
(Ord. 301, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
II.   Parking time limited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   No motor truck having a wheel base greater than 125 inches shall park in the
parking spaces provided on the following city streets:
 
Street        Location
Court Street  Between Third and Fifth Streets
Fourth Street Between Broadway and Ohio Streets
 
(Ord. 346, passed 4-5-54) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   Parking shall be limited as indicated in the following schedule on the
designated streets.
 
Street                  Side  Location                 Limit
                                                       Parking limited to one
                              Between Fourth and Fifth hour between 7:00 a.m.
Court Street            South Street                   and 6:00 p.m. except
                                                       Sundays and public
                                                       holidays
                                                       Parking limited to ten
Court Street            South West of First Street     minutes between 7:30
                                                       a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
                                                       except Sundays
                              From Third Street to the Parking limited to ten
Court Street            North alley east of the post   minutes between 7:30
                              office                   a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
                                                       except Sundays
                                                       Parking limited to one
                              Between Court Street and hour between 7:00 a.m.
Fourth Street           West  Ohio Street              and 6:00 p.m. except
                                                       Sundays and public
                                                       holidays
                                                       Parking prohibited
                                                       between 7:00 a.m. and 4:
Tenth Street            East  From Broadway to Ky. St. 00 p.m. except buses
                              Highway No. 121          operated by the Ballard
                                                       County Board of
                                                       Education
Alley running north and
south between Third and       Three spaces so          Parking limited to five
Fourth Streets and           designated               minutes per vehicle
Court Street and Ohio
Streets
 
(Ord. 365, passed 11-3-58; Am. Ord. 418, passed 11-4-75; Am. Ord. 419, passed
1-5-76; Am. Ord. 430, passed 5-6-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping of hogs and livestock
   
90.08   Fowl running at large
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.18   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
Dangerous or Vicious Animals
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Keeping dangerous animal outside enclosure prohibited
   
90.32   Exceptions
   
90.33   Enforcement
Regulation of Certain Animals and Chickens
   
90.45   Definitions
   
90.46   Prohibited animals
   
90.47   Keeping, harboring, or boarding poultry
   
90.48   Authority to enter animal control contract
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights an
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to remain on
or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means; or
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian
may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom such animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 KEEPING OF HOGS AND LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful to keep and maintain within the corporate limits of the
city any pigs or hogs at any time. It shall also be unlawful to keep, feed, or
maintain any type of livestock within the corporate limits of the city at any
time.
(Ord. 302, passed 5-1-39; Am. Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any chicken, duck, guinea, goose, or any fowl of
the avian or aquatic family to run at large within the corporate limits of the
city, and anyone suffering or permitting any such fowl or fowls to run at large
within the corporate limits of the city shall be punished as set forth in §
90.99.
(Ord. 318, passed - -44) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.17 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound such dog or have
such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.22 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.30DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE.  An animal running loose without leash or restraint measures.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal may be categorized as dangerous when any one or
more of the following conditions occur:
      (1)   Any animal which has been declared to be dangerous at a proceeding
held pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any animal which, while at large or improperly confined or
controlled, kills or seriously injures another domestic animal, whether on
public or private property.
      (3)   Any animal which is observed at large and running in packs of three
on separate occasions, as such animals pose a potential danger to the public
due to their tendency to develop dangerous or vicious habits. Animals will not
be permitted in the city park.
      (4)   Any animal which approaches a person or an animal in a threatening
or menacing manner.
      (5)   Any animal which has inflicted injury on, or attacks, or bites, a
human being, without provocation, whether on public or private property.
      (6)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or partly for the purpose of
animal fighting, or trained for fighting.
      (7)   Any animal which the owner permits to be used or uses in the
commission of a crime or to harm, threaten, torment, abuse, or otherwise
endanger the safety of a human being.
      (8)   Any animal which, unprovoked, chases or approaches a person on the
streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property in an attempt to attack.
      (9)   Any animal with an observed propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack, unprovoked, so as to cause injury or otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals.
      (10)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL as used in this subchapter shall further have the
following meanings:
         (a)   Any dog regardless of breed or size that fits the foregoing
definitions.
         (b)   Any wild animal held in captivity.
         (c)   Any dog that is a mix of a wild animal and domestic breed.
   DOG. Shall be intended to mean both male and female.
   PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, organization or
corporation.
   PROVOCATION. Tormenting, abusing or assaulting any animal.
(Ord. 553, passed 6-6-03)
§ 90.31 KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMAL OUTSIDE ENCLOSURE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Keeping dangerous animals outside an enclosure is prohibited. It shall
be unlawful for any person to chain or keep a dangerous animal within the City
of Wickliffe outside a proper enclosure. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or harbor within the city a dangerous or vicious dog unless it is at all
times kept securely chained or enclosed in such a manner that it cannot escape
from the owner’s premises.
   (B)   (1)   Such enclosure must have a minimum dimension of five feet by ten
feet per dog and must have secure sides and a secure top. If it has no
concrete, cement or asphalt bottom, the sides must be imbedded into the ground
no less than two feet.
      (2)   The enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for
the dog.
      (3)   A vicious dog shall be transported to or from the indoors and
securely enclosed and locked in an outdoor pen or shelter only if such dog is
muzzled and restrained by a suitable chain or leash not exceeding six feet in
length and under the control of a responsible adult. The muzzle must be made in
a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but will prevent the dog from biting any person or animal.
   (C)   In addition, no landlord or landlord agent shall permit any tenant to
move in a vicious animal into any building or premises owned or controlled by
the landlord or landlord agent. No landlord or landlord agent shall normally
permit any person to keep any vicious dog in any building or premises owned or
controlled by the landlord or landlord agent, unless it complies with the
enclosure requirements. Any landlord or landlord agent learning of any vicious
dog in any building or premises owned or controlled by the landlord or landlord
agent shall notify the person having such dog to remove the dog from the city
immediately.
   (D)   Visitors staying in the City of Wickliffe will be required to comply
with the terms of this subchapter once they have been informed concerning the
city’s requirements on dangerous or vicious dogs by the City Clerk, city or
county law enforcement officers or the county dog warden.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to keep or harbor any dog
that barks or yelps or otherwise makes such noise as to disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 553, passed 6-6-03)
§ 90.32 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions. ENCLOSURES shall be defined as:
      (1)   Bona fide educational or medical institutions, museums or any other
place where dangerous animals are kept as live specimens for the public to
view, or for the purpose of instruction or study.
      (2)   Any circus, carnival or other exhibit or show which keeps such
animals for exhibition to the public.
      (3)   A bona fide licensed veterinary hospital which keeps such animals
for treatment or impoundment.
   (B)   (1)   It is not the intent of this subchapter to prohibit the Police
or Sheriff’s Departments or any other law enforcement agency operating within
the City of Wickliffe from using any trained dog that may attack on command
provided that such dog must be kept in the presence of its handler or confined
in accordance with the law enforcement policy at all times.
      (2)   Additionally, it is not the intent of this subchapter to prohibit
dogs which have been trained as seeing eye dogs intended to help the crippled
persons or other medical assistance trained dogs.
(Ord. 553, passed 6-6-03)
§ 90.33 ENFORCEMENT.
   Upon the written complaint of any person that a person owns or is keeping or
harboring a vicious dog on the premises within the city limits, the Police
Department or the Ballard County Sheriff’s Department or Ballard County Dog
Warden may cause the matter to be investigated and if after investigation, the
facts indicate that the person named in the complaint is in fact the owner or
is keeping any vicious dogs within the city limits, and is not meeting the
requirements of this subchapter, the investigating officer shall inform the
City Clerk and the City Clerk shall send written notice to the person requiring
him or her to remove the dog from the city limits within three days from the
date of the notice.
(Ord. 553, passed 6-6-03)
REGULATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS AND CHICKENS
§ 90.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title (as determined by documents of record
in the Ballard County Court Clerk’s Office) in real property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, company, or
organization of any kind.
   POULTRY. Chickens, ducks, turkeys, guineas, peacocks or any domestic fowl.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 668, passed 8-8-24)
§ 90.46 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, or board the following
animals on premises within the limits of the city:
      (1)   Livestock such as horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, oxen,
ponies, or ratites (ostrich, rhea, emu);
      (2)   Exotic animals such as tigers, lions, monkeys, bears, zebras,
alligators, venomous reptiles, or other similar animal(s) commonly held captive
at a zoo;
      (3)   Animal not commonly and traditionally domesticated such as racoons,
deer, opossums, poisonous snakes, and so forth; or
      (4)   Except in compliance with the terms set forth in §
90.47.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of any premises to allow a person to
keep, harbor, or board one or more of the animals identified in division (A).
(Ord. 668, passed 8-8-24) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.47 KEEPING, HARBORING, OR BOARDING POULTRY.
   (A)   An owner is in compliance with §
90.46(A)(4) if and only if all poultry on the premises are kept, harbored, or
boarded as follows:
      (1)   No owner shall keep, harbor, or board more than ten poultry animals
within the city.
      (2)   No more than ten poultry animals may be kept, harbored, or boarded
on any premises within the city.
      (3)   Only non-crowing animals are allowed.
      (4)   All operations associated with poultry (henhouse, coop, rim,
compost piles, and so forth) shall be located in the backyard and be at least
50 feet from the property boundary of any neighboring owner.
      (5)   Poultry must be contained in an enclosure or structure on the
premises which shall be erected and maintained so as to prevent poultry from
encroaching on the property of any neighboring owner or public property.
      (6)   All feed shall be stored in a location and in a container
reasonably calculated to prevent rodents and access by other animals.
      (7)   Poultry shall not be kept in a manner that would allow a
perceptible odor beyond the property line.
      (8)   Breeding and slaughtering of poultry are prohibited within the
city.
      (9)   The owner shall provide for storage and/or removal of animal
excrement. All excrement for composting or fertilizing shall be contained in a
well-aerated garden compost pile. All excrement not used for composting or
fertilizing shall be removed from the premises. All operations associated with
such animals and the surrounding area shall be kept free from trash and
accumulated droppings or feed.
   (B)   Compliance with this section shall not operate as compliance with any
other ordinance in effect and shall not limit any cause of action, including
but not limited to nuisance.
(Ord. 668, passed 8-8-24) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 AUTHORITY TO ENTER ANIMAL CONTROL CONTRACT.
   (A)   The Mayor, upon approval of the City Council, may contract for animal
control. The Mayor may contract with an entity that employs, appoints, or
contracts with animal control officers, for the enforcement of this subchapter
and those ordinances codified in this code of ordinances, Chapter 90. The Mayor
may enter into agreements with Ballard County for the enforcement of Ballard
County’s animal control ordinances. The agreement shall include, but shall not
necessarily be limited to, setting out the jurisdiction and the duties of the
animal control officer respective to the agreement.
   (B)   The Mayor, upon approval of the City Council, may appoint a person to
perform the duties of an animal control officer for purposes of enforcing this
subchapter.
   (C)   Animal control officers shall have the authority to issue uniform
citations, local citations, or local notices for the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter, the provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes
relating to cruelty, mistreatment, or torture of animals, and animal control
ordinances in their respective jurisdictions.
(Ord. 668, passed 8-8-24)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under §
90.03 arising from the person's treatment of an equine, the court may impose
one or both of the following penalties against the person, in addition to fines
and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   1.   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
            2.   If a person's ownership interest in an equine is terminated by
a judicial order under division (B)(2)(b)1. of this section, the court may
order the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the
subject of the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (D)   Any violation of §§
90.30 through
90.33 is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In addition to any other relief
provided by §
90.33 and this section, the City Attorney will apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of
§§
90.30 through
90.33 and that the animal be impounded or destroyed.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.30 through
90.33 shall upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 60 days or both such fine and
imprisonment as deemed appropriate. The provisions of §§
90.30 through
90.33 shall not be deemed to be violated unless the alleged violator has
received written notice or has been notified by the proper authorities.
   (F)   In addition, any person who violates §§
90.30 through
90.33 shall pay all animal care expenses, including sums for shelter, food,
handling, veterinary care and expert testimony which are necessitated by the
person’s failure to abide by the provisions of §§
90.30 through
90.33. The minimum expenses shall be set at $10 per day per animal, but actual
expenses will be due if they exceed the $10 per day per animal.
   (G)   (1)   The provisions of §§
90.45 through
90.48 may be enforced by any Code Enforcement Officer, any city official, any
peace officer, or any animal control officer within Ballard County.
      (2)   Any person or owner in violation of §§
90.45 through
90.48 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (3)   In addition to the provisions of division (G)(2) above, violations
of §§
90.45 through
90.48 shall be subject to the following civil fines:
         (a)   If a written notice of violation is posted on the premises where
the violation occurs and the violation is corrected within three days, no civil
fine will be imposed for the first violation.
         (b)   Subject to division (G)(3)(a), the following schedule of civil
fines applies:
 
First violation                  $50
Second violation                 $100
Third and all further violations $250
 
      (4)   Subject to division (G)(3)(a) above, each day the violation exists
on a premises shall constitute a separate violation.
(Am. Ord. 553, passed 6-6-03; Am. Ord. 668, passed 8-8-24)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public meeting required
   
91.16   Meeting agenda; opportunity to comment
   
91.17   Effect of comments
   
91.18   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Display of house numbers required, see §
96.02
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to prove
input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.823(2)
to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for
road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 MEETING AGENDA; OPPORTUNITY TO COMMENT.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 EFFECT OF COMMENTS.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.18 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, a
reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement
of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.03   Enforcement proceedings; procedure
   
92.04   Hearing; notice; failure to appear; procedure; final order
   
92.05   Appeals; final judgment
   
92.06   Suspension of license
   
92.07   Lien; recording; responsibility for fines, charges, and fees
 
   
92.99   Ordinance civil fine schedule
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570, KRS 65.8840
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided, ABATEMENT COSTS shall mean all necessary
and reasonable costs for and associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized
entry to, or demolishing all or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking
any other action with regard to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a
violation and to maintain and preserve public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   Without in any manner limiting the foregoing, ABATEMENT COSTS also
specifically include:
         (a)   The reasonable and necessary costs of repair to the construction
and maintenance of a structure;
         (b)   One hundred dollars per hour for the first hour of weed or grass
removal and $75 per hour for every hour thereafter, and $150 per hour for
tractor or back-hoe operation;
         (c)   The actual time spent by employees of the city multiplied by
hourly annualized compensation and benefits; and
         (d)   Abatement and decontamination of a property where a
methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted as provided in KRS 224.1-
240.
   ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH. An accumulation on any premises of filth, refuse,
trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public health,
welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by
owners or occupants of property within the city because of the danger of fire,
vermin, rodents, or insects, or the risk that the rubbish will blow into any
street, sidewalk, or property of another. This shall include the failure to
keep any pen, yard, lot or other enclosures for one or more animals in a
sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
   EXCESSIVE OR UNSTABLE GROWTH. Unless otherwise provided, with reference to
weeds or grass, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height of five inches or more
on any premises but excludes operations that are the subject of KRS 413.072.
UNSTABLE GROWTH shall include but not be limited to trees or stacks in such
proximity to the roadways, public property, public works, and neighboring
property as to create a substantial risk of damaging or limiting use of the
roadway, public property, public works, or neighboring property.
   IMMINENT DANGER. The classification of imminent danger shall mean a
condition that is likely to cause serious or life-threatening injury or death
at any time.
   JUNKED OR WRECKED AUTOMOBILES, VEHICLES, MACHINES, OR OTHER SIMILAR SCRAP OR
SALVAGED MATERIALS, EXCLUDING INOPERABLE FARM EQUIPMENT.
      (1)   Any unit with or without motive power that is unfit for human
habitation or is likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to
the public, also one of the following conditions, but not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Wrecked;
         (b)   Dismantled;
         (c)   Partially damaged;
         (d)   Inoperative;
         (e)   Abandoned;
         (f)   Discarded; and/or
         (g)   Unlicensed.
      (2)   This definition shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Junked, wrecked or inoperable automobiles, vehicles, machines or
other similar scrap or salvage material located on the business premises of a:
            1.   Licensed automotive recycling dealer as described in KRS
190.010(8);
            2.   Used motor vehicle dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(6);
            3.   Motor vehicle auction dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(11);
         (b)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperable motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private premises by automobile collectors, whether as a hobby
or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery or other means; and
         (c)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title (as determined by documents of record
in the Ballard County Court Clerk’s Office in real property.
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Am. Ord. 570, passed 7-3-06; Am. Ord. 592, passed 7-14-10; Am. Ord. 632,
passed 10-4-16; Am. Ord. 664, passed 3-14-24)
§ 92.02 CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having ownership, control or
management of any premises within the city limits, to permit a public nuisance,
health hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon:
      (1)   Through the accumulation of one or more junked or wrecked
automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar scrap or salvage materials,
excluding inoperable farm equipment;
      (2)   Through the accumulation of one or more mobile or manufactured
homes as defined in KRS 227.550 that are junked, wrecked, or inoperable and
which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Through the accumulation of rubbish;
      (4)   By allowing excessive or unstable growth;
      (5)   By allowing any structure to become unfit or unsafe for human
habitation, occupancy, or use or to permit conditions to exist on the structure
or premises which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the
occupants of the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other
residents of the city; or
      (6)   Through contamination due to methamphetamine as evidenced by the
posting of a methamphetamine contamination notice as provided in KRS 224.1-410.
   (B)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of Kentucky
as public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provisions of law.
(Am. Ord. 570, passed 7-3-06; Am. Ord. 592, passed 7-14-10; Am. Ord. 632,
passed 10-4-16; Am. Ord. 664, passed 3-14-24) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before City Council shall be initiated by the
issuance of a citation by a city employee charged with the duty of code
enforcement as determined by the Mayor. The city employee shall be deemed the
Code Enforcement Officer when acting in this capacity.
   (B)   (1)   When a Code Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation
or investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed a
violation of this chapter, the Officer is authorized to issue a citation by
providing notice pursuant to any one or more of the following methods:
         (a)   Delivering or offering to deliver a copy of the citation into
the hand of the owner of the premises to which the citation pertains;
         (b)   Depositing an envelope containing a copy of the citation with
the United States Postal Service with direction that it be delivered by first
class mail certified, restricted delivery, return receipt requested to the
address to which ad valorem tax bills on the premises to which the citation
relates are directed to be sent;
         (c)   Leaving a copy of the citation with a person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises; or
         (d)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and simultaneously depositing an envelope containing a copy of the
citation with the United States Postal Service to be delivered by regular,
first class mail to the address to which ad valorem tax bills on the premises
to which the citation relates are directed to be sent;
         (e)   If the owner has provided or previously communicated with the
Code Enforcement Officer by other reliable means, including but not limited to
text message or electronic mail, then by such means as the prior communication
so long as there is no reasonable basis to believe the owner will not receive
the notice.
      (2)   The methods of notice as described above in this division (B) may
be accomplished with the assistance of local law enforcement but only at the
direction of the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a
citation, give notice that a violation shall be remedied within three days with
the notice being kept in a log maintained by the Code Enforcement Officer. If
the person to whom the notice is given fails or refuses to remedy the violation
within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to then
immediately issue a citation.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain, in
addition to any other pertinent information as determined by the Code
Enforcement Officer, the following:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the nuisance was committed;
      (4)   The act constituting the nuisance;
      (5)   If applicable, the section of the code or the number of the
ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   The following statement: “"Failure to either pay the civil fine
set forth in this citation or contest the citation within the time allowed is a
waiver of any right to a hearing (and any appeal) to contest this citation and
the determination that the violation stated herein was committed shall be
final, and this citation, as issued, shall be a final order determining that
the violation identified occurred and was a public nuisance.”
   (E)   After the issuance of a citation to an alleged violator, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall provide a copy of the citation to the City Clerk. The
Code Enforcement Officer or the City Clerk may also elect to provide notice by
regular, first class mail of the United States Postal Service of the issuance
of the citation to any person having any interest in the premises to which the
citation relates.
   (F)   When a citation is issued, the owner shall respond to the citation
within seven days of the date the citation is issued by either paying the civil
fines set forth in the citation or requesting, in a signed writing delivered to
the City Clerk, a hearing to contest the citation. If the owner fails to
respond to the citation within seven days, the owner shall be deemed to have
waived any right to a hearing (and any appeal therefrom to any court of
competent jurisdiction) to contest the citation and the determination that the
violation stated in the citation was committed shall be final, and the
citation, as issued, shall be a final order determining that the violation
identified occurred and was a public nuisance.
(Ord. 632, passed 10-4-16; Am. Ord. 638, passed 3-14-19; Am. Ord. 664, passed
3-14-24)
§ 92.04 HEARING; NOTICE; FAILURE TO APPEAR; PROCEDURE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing to contest a citation is timely requested, the City
Clerk shall schedule a hearing. Not less than seven days before the date set
for the hearing, the Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the person or owner
that requested the hearing of the date, time, and place of the hearing. The
notice may be provided in any manner by which notice of the citation can be
given. Any owner requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and place
set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and
such waiver shall have the same effect as having failed to respond to the
citation. Notice of the final order shall be provided to the owner in the
manner set forth in division (E) below.
   (B)   An attorney selected by the City Council (or the regularly practicing
attorney for the city if a different attorney is not selected by the City
Council) may present the affirmative evidence of the violation(s) subject to
the citation.
   (C)   All testimony shall be under oath and shall be preserved by audio or
video recording for a period of one year. The attorney selected to present
cases at the hearing may examine the Code Enforcement Officer, the owner of the
premises that is the subject of the citation, and any witnesses with evidence
of the alleged violation. The Kentucky Rules of Evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings. The
owner of the premises that is the subject of the citation may call witnesses
with evidence, subject to the limitation imposed by the City Council to prevent
irrelevant, cumulative, or unfairly prejudicial evidence.
   (D)   The City Council shall determine, based on the evidence presented,
whether a violation was committed. If the City Council determines that no
violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If
the City Council determines that a violation has been committed, the City
Council may issue an order upholding the citation and may order the premises
owner to do either or both of the following:
      (1)   Pay a civil fine in an amount up to the maximum authorized by this
chapter; or
      (2)   Remedy a continuing violation within a specified time to avoid the
imposition of further fines authorized by this chapter.
   (E)   Following the exhaustion of remedies available under this chapter (or
at an earlier time if so ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction), the
city may, through the Code Enforcement Officer or other person appointed by the
City Council, take actions to remedy a nuisance that has been the subject of a
citation. Such actions include but may not be limited to those that result in
abatement costs.
   (F)   Every final order following a hearing before the City Council shall be
reduced to writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions of the
City Council, and the date the order was issued. If the owner is not present at
the time a final order of the City Council is issued, a copy of the final order
shall be served on the owner in any manner by which notice of the citation can
be given.
(Ord. 632, passed 10-4-16; Am. Ord. 664, passed 3-14-24)
§ 92.05 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council issues a final order following a hearing at which
a citation was contested and the owner appeared at the hearing, an appeal may
be made to the Ballard District Court to the extent such jurisdiction is
authorized by KRS 65.8831; otherwise, an appeal may be filed in a court of
competent jurisdiction. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Rules of Civil Procedure within 30 days of the issuance of the City
Council’s final (written) order.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order is filed within 30 days, the order
shall be deemed final and unappealable for all purposes.
(Ord. 632, passed 10-4-16; Am. Ord. 664, passed 3-14-24)
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents imminent danger, the City Council may
suspend the license of the person or persons conducting the business or
activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
(Ord. 632, passed 10-4-16; Am. Ord. 664, passed 3-14-24)
§ 92.07 LIEN; RECORDING; RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject premises, the City
Council shall send, within 14 days of issuance of a final order following a
hearing, or waiver of a hearing, a copy of a final order upholding a citation
to all lien holders of record of the subject premises by first class mail with
proof of mailing. Any lien holder of record may, within 45 days from mailing of
that notice, correct the violation cited and/or elect to pay all civil fines
assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the City
Council in connection with the enforcement of this chapter, including abatement
costs as permitted by division (B) below.
   (B)   The City Council shall have a lien against the premises for all civil
fines assessed for the violation and for any charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of this chapter, including abatement
costs. The affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this chapter, and shall be recorded in the Office of the Ballard
County Court Clerk. The lien shall be noticed to all persons from the time of
its recording and shall bear interest in the amount of 4% per annum thereafter
until paid. The lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, except as provided in division (C) below.
The City Council shall possess the lien for ten years from the date of the
final, non-appealable order of the City Council or final judgment of the
applicable court. The lien may be enforced by judicial proceedings.
   (C)   The lien provided in division (B) above shall not take precedence or
priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The City Council fails to provide any lien holder a copy of the
determination in accordance with division (A) above; or
      (2)   The lien holder received a copy of the determination as required by
division (A) above, and the lien holder corrected the violations and/or paid
all civil fines assessed for the violation as well as all charges and fees
incurred by the City Council in connection with the enforcement of this
chapter, including abatement costs.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in this chapter, or any other
remedy authorized by law, the owner of a premises at the time the lien attaches
pursuant to this chapter shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien,
including all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges, fees, and
abatement costs incurred by the City Council in connection with the enforcement
of the ordinance. The City Council may bring a civil action to collect and
shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed. The
failure of a City Council to comply with division (A) above, and the failure of
a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in division
(C) above, shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the City Council has
against the owner of the premises.
(Ord. 632, passed 10-4-16; Am. Ord. 664, passed 3-14-24)
§ 92.99 ORDINANCE CIVIL FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of this chapter that are enforced shall be subject to the
following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
owner cited for the violation, the penalties set forth in this division (A) may
apply per inspection. If the Code Enforcement Officer is required to make
inspections beyond the initial inspection to determine if the required
corrections have been made, then the City Council shall assess the following
fines not to exceed the value of the property as determined by the Property
Valuation Administrator:
 
2nd inspection                 $100
3rd inspection                 $200
4th inspection each subsequent $300
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the City Council is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the City Council per inspection not to exceed the value of property as recorded
by the Property Valuation Administrator:
 
2nd inspection                     $200
3rd inspection                     $300
4th inspection and each subsequent $400
 
(Ord. 570, passed 7-3-06; Am. Ord. 592, passed 7-14-10; Am. Ord. 632, passed
10-4-16; Am. Ord. 664, passed 3-14-24)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Fire limits
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   The term FIREWORKS shall mean any composition or device for the
purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion,
deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of “consumer” or
“display” fireworks as set forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation's
(DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number l: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS are fireworks suitable for use by the public,
designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion, and that comply
with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the
U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of
pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this
chapter. Some small devices designed to produce audible effects are included,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer
Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, are classified
as Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and
include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition .
Upon ignition of the top of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, stars components, producing reports containing up
to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term mine refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term shell refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term cake refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent, launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   The term DISPLAY FIREWORKS shall mean pyrotechnic devices or large
fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is not limited
to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive
composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic
composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and are
classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   The term PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of
pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience,
whether indoors or outdoors.
(KRS 227.710)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by
cities, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups
of individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   A least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local fire chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistance in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this section. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this section.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the United States Department of the Interior or any equivalent
or local agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, copartnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B)(1) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person firm, copartnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks shall register annually with the state fire marshal's
office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and display its registration certificate
in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715 (6) - (8)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any Fire Department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distribution, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or display
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, as hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 FIRE LIMITS.
   There is hereby established within the city fire limits, described and
bounded as follows:
      “Beginning at a stake at the southeast corner of Lot No. 21, at a stake
in the north line of Broadway and the west line of Sixth Street; thence with
the west line of Sixth Street in a northerly direction a distance of 300 feet
to the south line of Court Street; thence westerly with the south line of Court
Street a distance of 720 feet to the west line of Fourth Street; thence in a
northerly direction with the west line of Court Street a distance of 360 feet
to the south line of Ohio Street; thence westerly with the south line of Ohio
Street a distance of 660 feet to the east line of Second Street; thence
southerly with the east line of Second Street a distance of 300 feet to the
north line of Court Street; thence easterly with the north line of Court Street
a distance of 360 feet to the east line of Third Street; thence southerly with
the east line of Third Street a distance of 360 feet to the north line of
Broadway a distance of 1020 feet to the point of beginning. The fire limits
area as above described includes Block Nos. 2, 3, 19, 20, and 21 as shown and
designated on the plat of the City of Wickliffe of record in Plat Book A, pages
2 and 3, Ballard County Clerk's Office.”
(Ord. 377, passed 12-4-61)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety, see §
150.01
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Purpose
   
94.03   Unlawful accumulations
   
94.04   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.05   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.06   Hauling loose material
   
94.07   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.08   Litter on private property
   
94.09   Enforcement by police officers
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPOUT. Any material emptied from a vehicle or building upon streets,
roadsides, or public places other than that emptied in appropriate litter
receptacles.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written material excluding newspapers, which
advertises for sale any commodity, or thing, or which directs attention to any
business or other activity, or event of any kind.
   LITTER. Any solid waste, including but not limited to, containers, packages,
wrappings, printed matter or other material thrown or deposited as herein
prohibited, but not including the wastes of the primary processes of mining,
logging, sawmilling, farming or manufacturing.
   LITTER BAG. A bag, sack, or other container made of any material which is
large enough to serve as a receptacle for little inside the vehicle or
watercraft of any person.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE. A container meeting the requirements of the department
for natural resources and environmental protection.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law.
   PARK. A reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other areas
in the city devoted to active or passive outdoor recreation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property not publicly owned or held for use by the
public.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area that is used or held for use by the public, whether
owned or operated by the public or private interests.
   SOLID WASTE. Any putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semi-solid waste,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, swill, demolition and
construction wastes, abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, and discarded
commodities.
   STREETS. Synonymous with and includes any highway, road, alley, collector,
local, arterial or freeway within the political subdivision.
   SWEEPOUTS. Any collection of debris, resulting from clean-up operations,
that is deposited in or around a public place.
   VEHICLE. Includes every device capable of being moved upon a public street
and in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or
drawn upon a public street.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-4-11)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish litter control in the city.
This chapter is intended to place upon all persons within the city the duty of
contributing to the public cleanliness and appearance in the city in order to
promote the public health, safety, and welfare and to protect the economic
interests of the people of the city against unsanitary and unsightly
conditions. It is further the intent of this chapter to protect the people
against the health and safety menace and the expense incident to littering.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-4-11)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or occupant, or any agent,
servant, representative or employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant
having control of any lot or land or any part thereof in the city to permit or
maintain on any such lot or land, or on or along the sidewalk, street or alley
adjacent to the same between the property line and the curb or middle of the
alley or for ten feet outside the property line if there be no curb, the
collection of rubbish, trash, and/or stagnate water.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or
land in the city to remove rubbish, trash, and stagnate water as often as be
necessary to comply with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-4-11)
§ 94.04 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   Enforcement of this chapter may be by any police officer. All such
enforcement officers are empowered to issue citations to and/or arrest without
warrant, persons violating the provision of this chapter. Said enforcement
officers may serve and execute all warrants, citations, and other processes
issued by the courts. In addition, mailing by registered or certified mail of
such warrant, citation, or other process to the last known place of residence
of the offender shall be deemed personal service upon the person charged.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-4-11)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In arriving at realistic penalties for violations of provisions
contained in this chapter, the primary objective has been to establish them as
part of the simplest possible enforcement systems.
   (B)   The system has these features:
      (1)   A mail-in ticket which:
         (a)   Identifies the violator;
         (b)   Lists and identifies violations of the provisions by section
numbers;
         (c)   States the prescribed fine beside each violation listed;
         (d)   Provides simple instructions on where the ticket is to be mailed
with a check or money order in the amount of the stipulated fine; and
         (e)   States a simple procedure to follow if the violator elects to
appear in court to plead the case rather than mail in the fine.
      (2)   Use of the above ticket by all department and agency personnel
authorized to enforce sections of this chapter.
      (3)   Use for particularly flagrant violations (dumpouts, garbage
spreading from badly-overloaded solid waste containers, debris-strewn property,
and the like). This would be in the form of a direct summons to court, with
penalty range substantially above those on the mail-in ticket.
   (C)   The schedule of penalties for violations of this chapter is as
follows:
Violation Amount
Violation                                                               Amount
Litter by pedestrians and motorists                                     $20
Dumpouts                                                                $300
Littering with handbills, leaflets, and the like                        $35
Failure to provide litter receptacles                                   $50
Transporting loose materials without adequate covering                  $100
Lack of containers at loading/unloading operations                      $25
Failure to clean loading/unloading areas                                $50
Accumulations of litter at construction/demolition sites                $100
Lack of containers at construction/demolition sites                     $100
Inability of show proof of proper end disposition of construction/      $100
demolition
Improper household solid waste containerization                         $20
Improper disposal of household bulk                                     $50
Failure to bundle and tie loose excess household solid waste            $20
Uncovered household containers                                          $10
Failure to replace defective household containers                       $25
Failure to follow prescribed putout practice                            $25
Depositing household solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian litter $25
receptacles
Improper commercial solid waste containerization                        $50
Uncovered commercial containers                                         $25
Failure to replace defective commercial containers                      $50
Depositing commercial solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian       $50
receptacles
Litter on private premises                                              $50
Litter on sidewalks and strips                                          $25
Sweepouts                                                               $25
Failure to property store solid waste receptacles or remove it from the $35
public rights-of-way
 
 
   (D)   Each day during which a stationary violation continues, except in
cases in which a given time has been allowed for corrective action to be taken,
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-4-11)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
95.07   Exemption
   
95.08   Administration
   
95.09   Education and conciliation
   
95.10   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04, 95.05 or 95.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structures, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structures or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
95.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply
only with respect to one such sale within any twenty-four month period;
provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale, or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time, provided further that the sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be excepted from the application of this title only if such house
is sold or rented without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesman, or person and without the publication, posting or mailing,
after notice, of any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
or attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupied one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He has, within the preceding 12 months participated as principal in
three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any
interest therein, or
      (2)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (3)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §
95.03(B) and 95.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, family status, color,
religion, national origin, or physical or mental disability;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, or
national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
or national origin.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85; Am. Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for
the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, or national origin of such
person or of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or
other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given; provided that nothing contained in
this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained
in §
95.03(B).
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions
of such access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, or national origin.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this ordinance prohibit a private club
not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85)
§ 95.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall by rule prescribe such rights to appeal from the
decisions of his hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to other
officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself, as shall be
appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85)
§ 95.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85)
§ 95.10 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05, or
95.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter is a Class A misdemeanor. A Class A
misdemeanor carries a fine from $100 to $500 and or confinement in the county
jail up to 12 months.
(Ord. 456, passed 7-2-85)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES
Section
   
96.01   Establishment of 911 service
   
96.02   Display of house numbers required
   
96.03   Public safety service user fees
§ 96.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF 911 SERVICE.
   (A)   The city, by and through its Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered
to enter into an agreement with the telephone company to establish and operate
an Enhanced 911 Emergency Telephone (E911) service.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 65.760(3), in order to fund the establishment and
operation of the E911 service, an E911 service charge is hereby levied in a sum
determined from time to time as necessary by the City Council per telephone
subscriber per month, on an individual exchange line basis in accordance with
the terms of the agreement herein above authorized.
   (C)   The telephone company is hereby authorized to collect the E911 service
charge from the telephone subscribers and shall be entitled to a fee for
billing and collecting the E911 service charge in an amount not to exceed 1% of
the total amount collected.
   (D)   The city, by and through its Mayor, is hereby authorized and empowered
to enter into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with the Kentucky Police
(KSP) for the establishment and operation of a Public Safety Answering Point
(PSAP) at the Kentucky State Police Post at Mayfield.
(Ord. 481, passed 2-5-91; Am. Ord. 595, passed 11-1-11)
§ 96.02 DISPLAY OF HOUSE NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   All citizens within the city limits of the city must display their house
numbers in a prominent place on the front of their house, after the numbers are
assigned in accordance with the 911 system. House numbers must be at least
three inches in height and must be situated and located on the front portion of
the residence, so as to be clearly visible from the street and road and not
obscured by any portion of the house, porch, shrubbery, or any other obstacles
to vision.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-6-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
  
§ 96.03 PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES USER FEES.
   (A)   The City of Wickliffe Fire Department shall initiate user fees for the
delivery of Fire Department services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the
scene of motor vehicle accidents and structure fires. The rate of the user fees
shall be that which is the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR), which
includes any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and may fluctuate
based on the needs of the accident or fire.
   (B)   The user fees shall be filed to the motor vehicle insurance,
commercial or homeowner’s insurance, representing an add-on-cost of the claim
for damages of the vehicles, property an/or injuries. The claim costs shall be
filed to the insurance coverage of the owner of a vehicle, owner of the
property, or responsible party.
   (C)   The City Finance Director may make rules or regulations, and from
time-to-time may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, not consistent
with this section as they deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for
these fees or the collection thereof.
   (D)   All amounts collected as a result of this section shall be placed into
a fund as established by the Finance Director to be used exclusively for
personnel, supplies and equipment for the Fire Departments.
(Ord. 598, passed 7-3-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   License fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue, sufficient to procure the
necessary police and fire protection for the property owners and inhabitants of
the city, and to the end that the City Council may meet its current expenses in
procuring the police and fire protection in the city, the Council does hereby
ordain and levy an occupational license tax, which tax as so levied shall be
per annum and upon the occupations, trades and professions carried on in the
city.
   (B)   The word PERSON as used herein shall mean any person, firm,
partnership or corporation doing business in the city.
(Ord. 331, passed 6-6-49)
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The amount of the business license will be a flat $20 and will follow
the original Ordinance 331 with a prior July 1 due date each year. The license
will cover any person, family, firm, partnership, professional or corporation
doing business in the city. This also includes any firm and all of the above
that are not physically located in the city but doing business in the city.
   (B)   The license tax herein levied shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer
on request of any person desiring to engage in any business in the city on
which is charged. The person shall be required to pay to the Clerk-Treasurer
the amount of the license fee required.
   (C)   A computer record will be kept of all parties paying the business
license fee.
   (D)   Should any person be engaged in two occupations at the same place then
in that event he is only required to pay one license.
(Ord. 331, passed 6-6-49; Am. Ord. 528, passed 7-7-98)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation transacting or engaged in any business
without first procuring a license so to do shall be fined for each and every
offense in the sum of $30. If the case is taken to small claims, the party or
parties will also incur administrative and court costs.
(Ord. 528, passed 7-7-98)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)    Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker frm the general public. For all persons who have
left any property that has been pawned or sold, the register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases; by the
pawnbroker from the general public; and
         (a)    A driver's license number;
         (b)    Another state or federally issued picture identification card;
or
         (c)    If the identification specified in divisions (2)(a) and (b)
above is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of the state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division, FULL DESCRIPTION includes but is not limited to:
         (a)    Make;
         (b)    Model;
         (c)    Color;
         (d)    Size;
         (e)    Manufacturer;
         (f)    Vintage; and
         (g)    Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report. The
report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the purchased, give
that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the stipulated
resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 465, passed 8-4-87)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 6.4% of the first year’s premiums actually collected
within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(KRS 91A.080(2)) (Ord. 465, passed 8-4-87; Am. Ord. 616, passed 3-3-15)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 6.4% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for accident
and health policies and for insuring employers against liability for personal
injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of
the Workers' Compensation Act and shall not include premiums received on
policies of group health insurance provided for state employees under KRS
18A.225(2), or any premiums received for insurance as described in KRS 91A.080
(10) and (13).
(KRS 91A.080(3), (10)) (Ord. 465, passed 8-4-87; Am. Ord. 616, passed 3-3-15)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(KRS 91A.080(8), (9)) (Ord. 465, passed 8-4-87)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8)) (Ord. 465, passed 8-4-87)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130. OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Use of weapons
   
130.02   Pan handling
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 USE OF WEAPONS.
   No person shall shoot or discharge any firearms within the corporate limits
of the city, unless the same shall be necessary for the protection of person or
property.
(Ord. 14, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 PAN HANDLING.
   (A)   No person shall stop an individual on the public streets of the city
and ask that individual for food, money, or any item of value.
   (B)   The prohibition in subsection (A) is not to be construed to prohibit
charitable solicitations as may be permitted by law.
(Ord. 540, passed 10-4-00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used throughout this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to prevent conduct in violation of this
section, provided that the parent or guardian must have actual or constructive
knowledge of the offending conduct, that is, the parent or guardian must
actually know that the minor in his or her custody is violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent parent or guardian
should have known that the conduct of the minor was in violation of this
section.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a man-made or natural disaster, automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      MINOR. Any unemancipated person under 18 years of age (17 or under).
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands “in loco parentis”;or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given or directed by
order of a court.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial group of
persons has access and includes, but is not limited to, highways, streets,
alleyways, transportation facilities, schools, places of amusement, parks,
places of business, playgrounds and hallways, lobbies and other common areas of
apartment houses, hotels, hospitals, office buildings, shops, stores,
restaurants, and other similar commercial establishments.
      REASONABLE NECESSITY. That which an ordinarily prudent person would
consider rational, just, and appropriate under the same or similar
circumstances.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, or linger upon or in any public place.
   (B)   Parental responsibility.
      (1)   A parent shall not allow any minor in his or her lawful custody to
be or remain in or upon a public place in the city between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. during any day of the week, under circumstances not
constituting one or more of the exceptions enumerated in division (C) below.
      (2)   Any parent who fails to comply with division (B)(1) above shall be
guilty of a violation as provided in §
130.99.
   (C)   Responsible parental conduct; defenses. It shall not be considered a
violation, and it shall be a defense to any prosecution under division (B)(2)
above, if during the event and time in question the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult 21 years of age or older who is authorized
by the parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, provided that prior written notices have been given to the
Mayor of the city and signed by the minor and countersigned by the parent or
legal guardian and is in the possession of such minor specifying when, where,
and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First Amendment rights;
      (4)   Running a legitimate errand for the parent or legal guardian;
      (5)   Legally employed by a legitimate business, one-half hour before to
one-half hour after scheduled work hours, while going directly between his or
her home and place of employment;
      (6)   On the property of his or her own residence or property directly
adjacent to this residence, with the permission of the owner of the adjacent
property, and is causing no problems such as interfering with the comfort of
those in or passing through the area;
      (7)   Lawfully operating a motor vehicle or, with parental knowledge and
consent, is a passenger in a motor vehicle with a lawfully authorized driver
for the purpose of passing through, by direct route, from one location to
another either within or out of the city;
      (8)   In an actual emergency that requires that the minor be out;
      (9)   Violating curfew due to reasonable necessity, but only after such
minor’s parent or guardian has communicated to the Ballard County Sheriffs
Office the facts establishing such reasonable necessity.
      (10)   Authorized by permit issued by the County Judge/Executive or the
City Manager, as appropriate, in cases of reasonable necessity involving more
minors than may reasonably be dealt with on an individual basis, (e.g. city or
county festivals, fairs, expositions, or other organized celebrations or
memorials; school, church, civic or other recreational events of a special
nature). The County Judge/Executive or the City Manager, as the case may be,
shall publically advertise any permit sufficiently in advance of the event or
occasion, through the news media, schools, or other appropriate agencies. The
permit shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the public place
permitted, and the period of time involved, not to extend more than one hour
beyond the time for termination of the activity, and the reason why the
regulation (or permit) is reasonably necessary. A copy of the permit shall be
forwarded to the appropriate law enforcement agency in advance of the date of
the activity or event in question.
   (D)   Enforcement of section.
      (1)   Before proceeding with any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer, upon finding any minor in or upon a public place,
during a time period not authorized herein, may stop and question such minor
and request such information as his or her name, address, and the name and
address of his or her parent.
      (2)   If the law enforcement officer determines or has reasonable cause
to believe that the minor does not meet any of the permitted conditions
provided in division (C) above, the law enforcement officer shall issue a
citation, or, when necessary, cause a warrant summons to issue against said
minor’s parent(s) for violation of division (B)(2) above and may take into
custody as evidence of the offense, the minor and/or take the minor to his or
her home. The law enforcement officer shall, at the time of the issuance of the
citation or warrant summons, notify the offending parent(s) of the right to
file a “beyond control” petition in defense of any prosecution hereunder, as
set forth in division (E)(2) below.
   (E)   Beyond parental control petition, defense to prosecution.
      (1)   It shall constitute a complete defense to any prosecution under
division (B)(2) if at the time of issuance of the citation or warrant summons
the offending parent or spouse has an active beyond control petition pending in
Ballard District Court.
      (2)   Any parent issued a citation or served with a warrant summons by a
law enforcement officer for violation of division (B)(2) above, may, within 48
hours thereof, cause a beyond control petition to be initiated against the
minor. If the parent obtains a beyond control petition, in good faith, within
the 48-hour time period and the parent fully participates and cooperates in the
proceedings against said minor, the filing of the beyond control petition shall
constitute a complete defense to any prosecution for a violation of division
(B)(2) of this section.
(Ord. 625, passed 3-1-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.02 shall be fined $25 for the first and second offense within a calendar
year and $50 for the third or more offense within a calendar year.
(Ord. 540, passed 10-4-00)
   (B)   Any parent found to be in violation of §
130.03(B)(2), for whom there is no available defense to prosecution, shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for each offense.
(Ord. 625, passed 3-1-16)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   PLANNING
      
154.   UNFIT DWELLINGS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (B)   The City of Wickliffe Building Code Inspector shall be designated as
the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The City of Wickliffe Building Code Inspector and all other designated
officers, agents, and employees of the city are hereby charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire limits, see §
93.22
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which provisions apply
   
151.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.08   Compliance required
   
151.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.10   Interpretation
   
151.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.25   General standards
   
151.26   Specific standards
   
151.27   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
151.28   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.29   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO zones)
Administration
   
151.40   Establishment of development permit; permit procedures
   
151.41   Local administrator
   
151.42   Variance procedures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Kentucky has in KRS 100 delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council does ordain this chapter.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstruction
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage, and;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazard to other
lands.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruption;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To insure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING BUILDING. Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of Mayor and Council's interpretation of any
provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended though its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMS effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as “Existing Structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.)
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface water from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD/BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a building.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved
property.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD).
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM. As corrected in 1929 is a vertical control
used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the city's floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city's floodplain management regulations.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis,
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a
building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
alteration, or improvements to a building, taking place during a five-year
period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the building. The market value of the building should be the appraised value
of the building prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or in
the case of damage, the value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage,”
regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the purposes of this
definition, “substantial improvement” is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include either any
project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the Code
Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions or any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS. The
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH PROVISIONS APPLY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study dated May, 1988, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data, and any revision thereto, are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.08 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such area will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if the nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have
been provided, as set forth in §
151.07, or §
151.41(B)(9), the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement elevated one foot above the base flood elevation. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be
provided in accordance with standards of division (C) below of this section.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential building or
manufactured home shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one
foot above the base flood elevation. Buildings located in all A-Zones may be
flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated, provided that all areas of the
building below the required elevation are water tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, and use structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
151.41(B)(7).
   (C)   Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and
other exterior walls below the base flood elevation shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved outside of
a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
must meet all the requirements for new construction, including elevation and
anchoring.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or
above the level of the base flood elevation, or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above grade.
         (c)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, any
manufactured home placed or substantially improved must meet the standards of
division (D)(2)(a) and (c).
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 160 consecutive days,
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured homes.”
A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
151.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If division (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.27 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within areas of special flood hazard, unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community. The
engineering certification should be supported by technical data that conforms
to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of buildings shall be
elevated or flood- proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.41(B)(9).
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.28 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and,
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of fifty lots or five acres.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.29 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements or residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade, at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city's FIRM. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city's FIRM. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade, or
      (2)   Together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities be
completely flood- proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT; PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Mayor and
City Council on forms furnished by him or them prior to any development
activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all buildings;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential building will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   Certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood-proofed building will meet the flood-proofing
criteria in §
151.26(B);
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (2)   Construction stage. Provide a floor elevation or flood-proofing
certification after the lowest floor is completed. Upon placement of the lowest
floor, or flood-proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the duty
of the permit holder to submit to Mayor and City Council a certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built, in relation
to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building,
said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Mayor and City Council shall review the floor elevation survey data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections
required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
§ 151.41 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The duties of the Mayor shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required, and if specific federal or state permit requirements are known,
require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the
development permit.
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the Kentucky Division of Water
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved buildings, in accordance with §
151.40(B)(2);
      (6)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with §
151.40(B)(2);
      (7)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building, the
Mayor shall obtain certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect, in accordance with§
151.40(B)(2);
      (8)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Mayor shall make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
      (9)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.07, then the Mayor shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.25 through
151.29;
    (10)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Mayor and shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93; Am. Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
§ 151.42 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Flood Appeal Board as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Flood Appeal Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirements, decision, or determination made
by the Mayor in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Flood Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the Ballard Circuit Court as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
   (E)   In passing upon such applications, the Flood Appeal Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, in the case
of a functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
    (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and,
    (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above, and the purposes of
this chapter, the Flood Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief; and in the instance of a historical building, a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character
and design of the building;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a
variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the building is to be built and
stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (4)   The Mayor shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and
report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93; Am. Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500
per day, imprisoned for not more than 10 days, or both, and in addition, shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 497, passed 12-7-93)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Mobile and manufactured homes to be located only on approved property
   
152.02   Homes to which provisions do not apply; exemptions
   
152.03   Administration of provisions by Planning and Zoning Commission
Used Trailers and Mobile Homes
   
152.10   Maximum age of used trailers or mobile homes for resale
   
152.11   Inspection and approval of used trailers or mobile homes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES TO BE LOCATED ONLY ON APPROVED PROPERTY.
   (A)   From October 1, 1991, no trailers, mobile homes, or other such mobile
residential units or manufactured homes shall be located anywhere in the city
unless the property has been approved by the State of Kentucky and all other
governmental agencies for mobile home or trailer parks and which property meets
all of the required health, safety, and other codes as ordained by the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, and all relevant local, state, and regional agencies, laws,
rules, and regulations.
   (B)   The minimum square footage of any trailer that qualifies and is
approved by the City Board of Adjustment and the City Council will be 1000
square feet, providing it meets all federal, state and city building codes.
This may include a deck or porch that is added on within an approved time not
to exceed four months. This section has been the rule that has been applied in
the application of Ordinances No. 486 and 494 from October 1991.
(Ord. 486, passed 10-1-91; Am. Ord. 509, passed 12-5-95)
§ 152.02 HOMES TO WHICH PROVISIONS DO NOT APPLY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to mobile homes and or trailers now
existing in the city outside a registered licensed trailer park, or mobile home
park, such as contemplated in §
152.01 above, provided however that said units must nonetheless meet the health
and safety standards pursuant to
Chapters 92 and
154 of this code and all other applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations of the city, State of Kentucky, County of Ballard, and/or all other
governmental agencies.
   (B)   Provided however that any property owner who applies to the City
Council and/or Wickliffe Planning and Zoning Commission for permission to
establish a modular home or manufactured home on his property for his principal
dwelling place and residence, and not for rental purposes, and shall receive
the approval of said Wickliffe City Council or Wickliffe Planning and Zoning
Agency in advance of the establishment of the modular home or manufactured
home, shall be exempt from the provisions hereof.
   (C)   In order to qualify as a rental unit in service prior to October 1,
1991, the unit must have been rented regularly as a rental unit prior to said
date, and shall have been in use as a rental unit on October 1, 1991. Any units
not in use as a rental unit prior to and on said date shall not be exempt from
the ordinance regarding rental units, and it shall be unlawful to rent said
units. Any unit which had been regularly used as a rental unit, but happened to
be only temporarily vacant on October 1, 1991, may be exempt from this chapter,
in the discretion of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 486, passed 10-1-91; Am. Ord. 494, passed 6-1-93)
§ 152.03 ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The ordinance enacted February 1, 1968 establishing a City Board of
Adjustment, and participating in the Joint City-County Planning and Zoning
Commission is hereby reaffirmed and hereby adopts the provisions of KRS Chapter
100 for the city. The Board of Adjustment shall function as the Planning and
Zoning Commission independently of the Joint Commission, and shall function
with said Joint Commission should same be re-established in the county and
other cities in the county.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint three members to the Board on or before
October 1, 1991 and the Board shall immediately commence to carry out this
chapter, and all other city ordinances relating to housing, planning, and
zoning, including but not limited to Ordinance No. 396 (
Chapter 153 of this code), 407, 408 (
Chapter 154 of this code), 15, and all others.
   (C)   After the Council determines that any mobile home is not in compliance
with city ordinances, and therefore cannot be used as a dwelling place, it
shall be unlawful for said mobile home to remain in the city limits, even if
not used as a dwelling unit. The property owner shall have a reasonable time,
and in no case, more than 30 days after written notice shall have been given,
in which to remove the mobile home from the city.
   (D)   The Council shall cause to be prepared a written record of the
decisions of the Board of Adjustment, and of the City Council, regarding mobile
homes, and this chapter, and
Chapter 153, and shall make available a copy of said written decisions to any
party affected by said decisions, or by any other party requesting same.
(Ord. 486, passed 10-1-91; Am. Ord. 494, passed 6-1-93)
USED TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES
§ 152.10 MAXIMUM AGE OF USED TRAILERS OR MOBILE HOMES FOR RESALE.
   (A)   This subchapter is to establish and answer questions that have arisen
concerning trailers or a mobile home, as to age, that is being considered for
purchase.
   (B)   The age of the trailer/mobile home shall not exceed six years from the
date of purchase from a manufacturer or dealership.
   (C)   If equipment has been used for demonstration or a model trailer/mobile
home, one year of grace will be granted from the date of manufacturing
regardless of time the equipment is used as a model.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the buyer to obtain all paperwork
required by the Board or Adjustment or City Council.
(Ord. 551, passed 4-8-03)
§ 152.11 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF USED TRAILERS OR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   The Mayor/Council/Board of Adjustment may require an inspection of a
used trailer/mobile home by the Fire Chief, Plumbing or Electrical Inspector
who are licensed to perform such an inspection prior to making a decision
regarding the permit application.
   (B)   A trailer will not be moved into the city or proposed site until all
requirements and final approval is given by the City Council.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to see that all requirements
are in order before purchasing any trailer/mobile home that could be moved into
the City of Wickliffe.
(Ord. 551, passed 4-8-03)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING
Section
   
153.01   Purposes and objectives
   
153.02   Joint Planning Unit
   
153.03   Joint Planning Commission
   
153.04   Boards of Adjustment
   
153.05   Financing
   
153.06   Effective period
§ 153.01 PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   The cities of Barlow, Kevil, LaCenter and Wickliffe and the County of
Ballard hereby declare that in the execution of this agreement and in the
fulfillment of their respective obligations hereunder, they are acting with the
following purposes and objectives, which shall not be considered exclusive, and
which are stated merely for the purpose of demonstrating to some extent the
intent of the parties:
   (A)   To secure the maximum economical, physical and social welfare for the
cities and county and their citizens through the thoughtful and planned use and
development of land, buildings, thoroughfares and public utilities.
   (B)   To encourage the establishment of planning programs, the provisions of
facilities and personnel therefor, the study of needs of the affected areas in
the field of planning and implementation and enforcement of all regulations
lawfully established and promulgated pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapter
100.
   (C)   To encourage cooperation between the cities and county and the
citizens and officials thereof.
   (D)   The cities and the county and the appropriate officials thereof shall
lend their best efforts in the attainment and fulfillment of the purposes and
objectives.
(Ord. 396, passed 1-1-68)
§ 153.02 JOINT PLANNING UNIT.
   (A)   The cities of Barlow, Kevil, LaCenter and Wickliffe and the County of
Ballard do hereby form a joint planning unit by combining their planning
operations into a joint city-county planning program.
   (B)   The area of jurisdiction of the joint city-county planning operation
shall include all of the city of Barlow, the City of Kevil, the City of
LaCenter, the City of Wickliffe and the County of Ballard.
(Ord. 396, passed 1-1-68)
§ 153.03 JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   A joint planning commission is hereby created which shall be known as
the “Joint City- County Planning Commission of Ballard County, Kentucky.” Upon
the appointment and subsequent approval of members, election of officers, and
adoption of its by-laws, its existence shall begin subject to the provisions of
KRS Chapter 100. The Commission may engage in planning operations within its
jurisdiction which shall include all of the City of Barlow, the City of Kevil,
the City of LaCenter, the City of Wickliffe, and the County of Ballard except
where otherwise provided for by KRS Chapter 100. This Commission shall have the
powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in KRS Chapter 100.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of a total of 15 members with ten of the
members being citizen members.
      (1)   Non-citizen members may be any elected official, appointed official
or public employee of the cities or county.
      (2)   Citizen members may be any citizen who is not an elected official,
appointed official or public employee of the cities or county.
      (3)   The Mayors and County Judge-Executive shall appoint the members of
the Commission with the approval of their respective legislative bodies. The
citizen members appointed by the Mayors shall be residents within the corporate
limits of their respective cities and the citizen members appointed by the
County Judge-Executive shall be residents of the portion of the county lying
outside the boundaries of all legally incorporated cities but inside the area
comprising the territorial jurisdiction of the Commission.
      (4)   Commission members shall be appointed according to the following:
         (a)   Ballard County - one non-citizen member; four citizen members.
         (b)   Barlow City - one non-citizen member; one citizen member.
         (c)   Kevil City - one non-citizen member; one citizen member.
         (d)   LaCenter City - one non-citizen member; two citizen members.
         (e)   Wickliffe City - one non-citizen member; two citizen members.
      (5)   The term of office of all elected public officials shall be the
same as their official tenure in office. For other members, the term shall be
four years, ending on February 15 of the designated year. The terms of those
first appointed shall be staggered so that a proportionate number serve one,
two, three and four years respectively, with later appointments or
reappointments continuing the staggered pattern. All vacancies whether by
resignation, dismissal or expiration of the term of office shall be filled
within 60 days by the appropriate appointing authority or as otherwise provided
for in KRS Chapter 100. The oath of office shall be administered to all members
of the Commission before entering upon their duties. The oath shall be
administered as provided by law. Any member may be removed by the appropriate
appointing authority for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or
conflict of interest. The removed members shall have the right of appeal in the
manner prescribed by KRS Chapter 100.
      (6)   Reimbursement for expenses lawfully incurred by a member in the
performance of his duties may be authorized by formal action of the Commission.
No member shall be compensated for his meeting time.
      (7)   The Commission shall elect a chairman, and any other officers which
it deems necessary from among its citizen members. The term of office shall be
one year with eligibility for reelection. the Commission may employ a staff as
it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with professional planners
and other parties for such services as it may require.
      (8)   The Commission shall conduct each year at least six regular
meetings for the transaction of its business. The by-laws adopted by the
Commission shall reflect the schedule of regular meetings. Special meetings
shall be held at the call of the chairman who shall give written or oral notice
to all members at least seven days prior to the meeting, which notice shall
contain the date, time, place and the subject or subjects to be discussed. All
members, except the Chairman, shall be entitled to vote and eight members of
the total membership including the Chairman or acting Chairman shall constitute
a quorum. After a quorum has been established a simple majority of that quorum
can transact any official business except in those instances where there is to
be an adoption or amendment of the Commission's by-laws or elements of the
comprehensive plan or regulations, then a vote of the simple majority of the
total membership shall be necessary. In any case of a tie vote or deadlock, the
Chairman shall then have the power to vote and shall cast his vote and break
such a tie or deadlock.
      (9)   The Commission shall adopt and approve its by-laws before it may
properly transact any business. The by-laws shall set forth the procedures,
rules, and regulations necessary for the Commission to conduct its business.
The by-laws shall describe the method for administration of funds, and provide
for an annual audit thereof.
      (10)   The Commission shall have general powers necessary to carry out
its functions in accordance with this agreement and KRS Chapter 100. The
Commission may be assigned any powers, duties and functions related to urban
renewal or public housing by the legislative bodies of the participating cities
or county. The Commission shall have the power to receive, hold, administer and
disburse funds which it may lawfully receive from any and every source.
Expenditures of such funds shall be in accordance with the formal action of the
Commission, or pursuant to regulations lawfully established by the Commission.
Officials, appointed officials and employees of the cities and county may be
authorized and/or directed by the Mayors and the County Judge-Executive to
attend meetings of the Commission, and otherwise to assist the Commission in
advisory capacities, when deemed necessary by the members of the Commission.
All other details of the Commission's operation which are necessary for the
establishment and administration of the Commission, for the preparation of
plans and for the aids to help implement the plans and shall be as described in
KRS Chapter 100 and as may be amended in the future.
(Ord. 396, passed 1-1-68)
§ 153.04 BOARDS OF ADJUSTMENT.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby created for each of the following political
subdivisions: the City of Barlow, the City of Kevil, the City of LaCenter, the
City of Wickliffe, and the County of Ballard, Kentucky. Each Board shall be
known as the Board of Adjustment for the respective political subdivision that
it serves. Each Board shall have the powers, duties and responsibilities as set
forth in KRS Chapter 100.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of the Boards of Adjustment shall be as follows:
      (1)   Board of Adjustment for the City of Barlow. Jurisdiction shall be
within the legal corporate limits of the city as exists or may be amended in
the future.
      (2)   Board of Adjustment for the City of Kevil. Jurisdiction shall be
within the legal corporate limits of the City of Kevil as exists or may be
amended.
      (3)   Board of Adjustment for the City of LaCenter. Jurisdiction shall be
within the legal corporate limits of the City of LaCenter as exists or may be
amended in the future.
      (4)   Board of Adjustment for the City of Wickliffe. Jurisdiction shall
be within the legal corporate limits of the City of Wickliffe as exists or may
be amended in the future.
      (5)   Board of Adjustment for the County of Ballard. Jurisdiction shall
be within all of the legal territorial boundaries of the county excluding the
area within the legal corporate limits of the City of Barlow, the City of
Kevil, the City of LaCenter, the City of Wickliffe as exist or may be amended
in the future.
   (B)   The membership, appointment and term of office for each of the Boards
of Adjustment is as follows:
      (1)   Board of Adjustment for the City of Barlow. The Board shall consist
of three citizen members, one of which shall be a citizen member of the
Planning Commission and resident of the City of Barlow. The Mayor of Barlow
shall appoint the members of the Board with the approval of the City of Barlow
legislative body. The term of office of all Board members shall be four years,
but the term of office of members first appointed shall be staggered so that a
proportionate number serve one, two, three and four years respectively, with
later appointments or reappointments continuing the staggered pattern.
      (2)   Board of Adjustment for the City of Kevil. The Board shall consist
of three citizen members, one of which shall be a citizen member of the
Planning Commission and resident of the City of Kevil. The Mayor of Kevil shall
appoint the members of the Board with the approval of the City of Kevil
Legislative Body. The term of office of all Board members shall be four years,
but the term of office of members first appointed shall be staggered so that a
proportionate number serve one, two, three and four years respectively, with
later appointments or reappointments continuing the staggered pattern.
      (3)   Board of Adjustment for the City of LaCenter. The Board shall
consist of three citizen members, one of which shall be a citizen member of the
Planning Commission and resident of the City of LaCenter. The Mayor of LaCenter
shall appoint the members of the Board with the approval of the City of
LaCenter legislative body. The term of office of all Board members shall be
four years but the term of office of members first appointed shall be staggered
so that a proportionate number serve one, two, three and four years
respectively, with alter appointments or reappointments continuing the
staggered pattern.
      (4)   Board of Adjustment for the City of Wickliffe. The Board shall
consist of three citizen members, one of which shall be a citizen member of the
Planning Commission and resident of the City of Wickliffe. The Mayor of
Wickliffe shall appoint the members of the Board with the approval of the City
of Wickliffe legislative body. The term of office of all Board members shall be
four years but the term of office of members first appointed shall be staggered
so that a proportionate number serve one, two, three and four years
respectively with later appointments or reappointments continuing the staggered
pattern.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment for the County of Ballard. The Board shall
consist of three citizen members, one of which shall be a citizen member of the
Planning Commission and resident of the County of Ballard living within the
legal territorial boundaries of Ballard County, excluding the area within the
legal corporate limits of the cities of Barlow, Kevil, LaCenter and Wickliffe
as exist or may be amended in the future. The County Judge-Executive of Ballard
County shall appoint the members of the Board with the approval of the County
of Ballard legislative body. The terms of office of all Board members shall be
four years, but the term of office of members first appointed shall be
staggered so that a proportionate number serve one, two, three and four years
respectively, with later appointments or reappointments continuing the
staggered pattern.
   (C)   Reimbursement for expenses lawfully incurred by a member of the Boards
of Adjustment in the performance of his duties may be authorized by formal
action of the respective Board. No member of the Boards shall receive any
compensation.
   (D)   The Boards of Adjustment shall have the power to receive, hold,
administer, and disburse funds which it may lawfully receive from any and every
source. Prior to the beginning of each Board's fiscal year, the respective
Board shall adopt a budget which shall be presented to the legislative body of
the political subdivision in which it has jurisdiction for the purpose of
receiving funds for the cost of its operation. Expenditures of such
appropriations and funds shall be in accordance with the formal action of the
Board or pursuant to the regulations lawfully established by the Board. All
other details of the Board's operation which are necessary for the
establishment and administration of the Boards shall be as described in KRS
Chapter 100 and as may be amended in the future.
(Ord. 396, passed 1-1-68)
§ 153.05 FINANCING.
   The joint planning operation shall be financed according to the following
method:
   (A)   Prior to the beginning of the Commission's fiscal year, the Commission
shall adopt a budget outlining the expected expenditures and needed revenues.
This budget shall then be presented to the Mayors and legislative bodies of the
cities of Barlow, Kevil, LaCenter and Wickliffe, and the County Judge-Executive
and legislative body of Ballard County by the Chairman of the Commission and/or
the respective commission members representing the Cities of Barlow, Kevil,
LaCenter, Wickliffe and the County of Ballard.
   (B)   This budget shall contain funds for the basic administration of the
program and of that part of the budget the City of Barlow shall pay 11%, the
City of Kevil shall pay 2%, the City of LaCenter shall pay 20%, the City of
Wickliffe shall pay 21%, and the County of Ballard shall pay 46%.
   (C)   The basic budget may be expanded from time to time with those
representative legislative bodies increasing their contributions based on
additional studies and plans and assistance in preparing such, and as may be
agreed upon by the Commission and legislative bodies.
   (D)   All funds subject to this agreement shall be paid to the Treasurer of
the Commission who shall be elected by the Commission or after approval by the
Commission to the party providing such studies, plans and assistance as
required by the Commission.
(Ord. 396, passed 1-1-68)
§ 153.06 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   This agreement shall be in full force and effect when executed by the
parties to the agreement and then filed in the office of the County Court Clerk
of Ballard County. This agreement shall be in existence for as long as at least
two of the original signatories are operating under the combination despite the
fact that other signatories have withdrawn from the unit.
(Ord. 396, passed 1-1-68)
CHAPTER 154: UNFIT DWELLINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
Housing Standards
   
154.10   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
154.11   Minimum standards for light, ventilation, and heating
   
154.12   General requirements relating to safe and sanitary maintenance
   
154.13   Minimum space, use, and location requirements
   
154.14   Rooming house and hotel/motel requirements
   
154.15   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
154.16   Designation of unfit dwellings and legal procedure of condemnation
Enforcement
   
154.25   Enforcement official
   
154.26   Rules and regulations adopted for enforcement of Housing Code
   
154.27   Violations; hearing procedure
   
154.28   Emergency conditions
   
154.29   Abatement by city
Unsafe, Unfit or Hazardous Structures
   
154.40   Definitions
   
154.41   Prohibition of unfit, unsafe, or hazardous structures
   
154.42   Enforcement officer
   
154.43   Issuance of written notice of deficiencies
   
154.44   Failure of owner to comply with the written notice
   
154.45   Hearing
   
154.46   Determination by the City Council
   
154.47   Right to appeal to Circuit Court
   
154.48   Costs and expenses of cure or demolition
   
154.49   Lien; collection on debt
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants. TEMPORARY HOUSING as hereinafter
defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING. DWELLING shall be construed as
though followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. DWELLING UNIT shall be
construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, trapping,
or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the
Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, or communicating corridors,
closets, and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents, or other pests in concentrations that constitute health hazards.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, eating
in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building or part
thereof in which units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. The temperature of 10°F.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, his or
their agent or agents who shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling
unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas-burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
installed clothes-washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other
similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer, or
gas lines.
   PREMISES. Construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons. ROOMING HOUSE shall be construed as though followed by the words
“or any part thereof.”
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking and
eating purposes. ROOMING UNIT shall be construed as though followed by the
words “or any part thereof.”
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage.
RUBBISH shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass
crockery, and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator, or tenant.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days, except in approved mobile home parks.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 154.10 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
Inspector.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below) shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within the room
and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory basin in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved
by the Inspector.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below) shall contain, within a room which affords privacy to a person within
the room, a bathtub or shower in good working condition and properly connected
to a water and sewer system approved by the Building Inspector.
   (D)   The occupants of not more than two dwelling units may share a single
flush water closet, a single lavatory basin, and a single bathtub or shower if:
      (1)   Neither of the two dwelling units contains more than two rooms. For
the purposes of this division, a kitchenette or an efficiency kitchen with not
more than 60 square feet of floor area shall not be counted as a room.
      (2)   The habitable area of each of the dwelling units shall equal not
more than 250 square feet of floor area.
      (3)   The water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower shall be in
good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system
approved by the Inspector.
   (E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower required
under the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above shall be properly
connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers, the type and location of which are approved by the
Inspector.
   (G)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities, the type and location of which are approved by the Inspector.
   (H)   Every dwelling shall have supplied water-heating facilities which are
properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, are
properly connected with the hot water lines required under the provisions of
division (E) above, and are capable of heating water to such a temperature as
to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen
sink, lavatory basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of not less than
120°F. Such supplied water-heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the
requirements of this division at all seasons of the year.
   (I)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this
state.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT, VENTILATION, AND HEATING.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured between
stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of the room.
Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any such room
and the light-obstruction structures are located less than three feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of such room,
the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total
floor area of the room.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can be easily opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal
to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type size,
as required in division (A) above, except where there is supplied some other
device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in divisions
(A) and (B) above, except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a
ventilation system which is kept in continuous operation during periods of use
and approved by the Building Inspector. Exception may be made when it is
determined that such spaces that existed at the time of adoption of this
chapter do not constitute hazards of health.
   (D)   Every habitable room of the dwelling shall contain at least two
separate floor or wall- type electric convenience outlets, or one such
convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling-type electric light fixture; and
every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room, and
public hall shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric
light fixture. Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly installed, shall
be maintained in good and safe working condition, and shall be connected to the
source of electric power in a safe manner, provided that the dwelling is within
300 feet of an available power line.
   (E)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition and are capable of
safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and water closet
compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at
least 70°F., at a distance three feet above floor level, when the outside
temperature is minus 5°F.
   (F)   Every public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to
dwelling occupancy and containing not more than four dwelling units may be
supplied with conveniently located light switches, controlling an adequate
lighting system which may be turned on when needed, instead of full-time light.
   (G)   During that portion of each year when the Inspector deems it necessary
for protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other insects, every door opening
directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have supplied screens and
a self-closing device; and every window or other device with openings to
outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be
supplied with screens.
   (H)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.12 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water- tight, and rodent-proof; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be kept in good repair.
   (B)   Every window, exterior door, and easement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight, and rodent-proof, and shall be kept in sound
working condition and good repair.
   (C)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks, and obstructions.
   (E)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and the bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (F)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   (G)   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from
or shut off from or discontinued for an occupied dwelling let or occupied by
him except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual
repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies, when
discontinuance of service is approved by the Inspector.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.13 MINIMUM SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the following requirements:
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of
floor space for every additional occupant thereof, the floor space to be
calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (B)   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 30 square feet of floor space for each occupant
thereof.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
compartment intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be
had only by going through another sleeping room; no room arrangements shall be
such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another
sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet compartment.
   (D)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have
a ceiling height of at least seven feet; and the floor area of that part of any
room where the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be considered as
part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the room for the
purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
   (E)   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
   (F)   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit
unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface run- off water and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes as required in §
154.11(A);
      (3)   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining such window area; and
      (4)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under §
154.11(B), except where there is supplied some other device affording adequate
ventilation and approved by the Inspector.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.14 ROOMING HOUSE AND HOTEL/MOTEL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to
another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in
compliance with the provisions of every section of this chapter, except the
provisions of §§
154.10 and
154.15.
   (B)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Building
Inspector and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each eight
persons or fraction thereof, residing within a rooming house, including members
of the operator's family whenever they share the use of the facilities,
provided that in a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush
urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half of the required number of
water closets. All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as
to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons
sharing the facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be
supplied with hot water at all times.
   (C)   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen
and towels therein at least once each week, and prior to the letting of any
room to any occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of
all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (D)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain
at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 30 square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof.
   (E)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this
state.
   (F)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings and for maintenance of
a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and he shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (G)   Every provision of this chapter which applies to rooming houses shall
also apply to motels and hotels, except to the extent that any such provisions
may be found in conflict with the laws of this state or with the lawful
regulations of any state board or agency.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.15 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling unit, and premises thereof
which he occupies and controls.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish containers
required by §
154.10(G).
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents, in a
clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in
the garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers required by §
154.10(G). It shall be the responsibility of the occupant to supply such
containers.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
handling all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same
are required under the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
   (F)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this division, whenever infestation
is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rodent-proof or
reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of
the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
   (G)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLING AND LEGAL PROCEDURE OF CONDEMNATION.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of such unfit dwellings
or dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the health officer:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin- infested that it creates a serious hazard to the public.
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public.
      (3)   One which because of its general condition or location is
unsanitary, or otherwise dangerous, to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation
and so designated and placarded by the Building Inspector shall be vacated
within 60 days from date of placarding.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by the Building
Inspector. The Building Inspector shall remove such placard whenever the defect
or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have
been eliminated.
   (D)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (C) above.
   (E)   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemning
and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
petition for a court hearing on the matter, under the procedure set forth in §
154.27.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.25 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Building Inspector designated by the city shall be the enforcement
official responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make
inspections to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
units, and premises located within the city when there is any evidence that
violation of this chapter exists, in order that he may perform his duty of
safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of dwellings and of the
general public. For the purpose of making such inspections the Building
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable
times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and premises.
      (1)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, and rooming
unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Building Inspector free
access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, and its premises, at
all reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection, examination, and
survey.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling or
dwelling unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful rule or regulation adopted or any
lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
§ 154.26 RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED FOR ENFORCEMENT OF HOUSING CODE.
   The Building Inspector may recommend to the Mayor the adoption of such
written rules and regulations as he may deem necessary for the proper
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Any rules and regulations
concerning the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter which are then
promulgated by the Mayor shall be subject to the approval of the City Council
in accordance with KRS 83A.130(4) and shall only be adopted after a public
hearing has been held in accordance with the laws governing the conduct of
public hearings by the City Council. Such rules and regulations shall not be in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter. A certified copy of all rules and
regulations which may be adopted pursuant to this section shall be filed with
the City Clerk/Treasurer. Such rules and regulations shall have the same force
and effect as the provisions of this chapter, and the penalty for violation
thereof shall be the same as the penalty for violation of the provisions of
this chapter, as provided in §
154.99.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
§ 154.27 VIOLATIONS; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that there is evidence
indicating that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter or
of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he shall give notice of
such alleged violation to the person or persons responsible therefor, as
hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his agent, or the occupant, as the case
may require. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon such owner,
agent, or occupant, if a copy thereof is served upon him personally; if a copy
thereof is sent by registered mail to his last known address; or if a copy
thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by
the notice;
      (5)   Contain specific remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Any person affected by an order issued by the Building Inspector
pursuant to this chapter may, within 30 days after the posting and service of
the order, petition the circuit court for an injunction restraining the
Building Inspector from carrying out the provisions of the order, and the court
may issue a temporary injunction restraining the Building Inspector pending the
final disposition of the cause. Hearings shall be had by a court on such
petition within 20 days, or as soon thereafter as possible. In all such
proceedings the findings of the Building Inspector as to facts, if supported by
evidence, shall be conclusive. Costs shall be in the discretion of the court.
The remedies herein provided shall be exclusive remedies and no person affected
by an order of the Building Inspector shall be entitled to recover any damages
for action taken pursuant to any order of the Building Inspector, or because of
noncompliance by such person with any order of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   After the court hearing, the Building Inspector shall sustain, modify,
or withdraw the notice, depending upon the court's findings as to whether the
provisions of this chapter and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto have been complied with. If the Building Inspector sustains or modifies
the notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any notice served pursuant to
division (A) above shall automatically become an order if a petition to the
circuit court for a hearing is not filed as set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
§ 154.28 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he may, without notice
or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that action be taken as he deems necessary to meet the emergency.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, the order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition, shall be afforded a hearing in
accordance with §
154.27(A) as soon as possible. After the court hearing, depending upon its
findings as to whether the provisions of this chapter and of the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the order shall
continue in effect, be modified, or be revoked.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
§ 154.29 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order issued pursuant hereto to
repair, alter, or improve or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close
the structure, the Building Inspector may cause the structure to be repaired,
altered, or improved, or to be vacated and closed. The Building Inspector may
cause to be posted on the main entrance of any structure so closed, a placard
with the following words:
      “This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation, occupancy or use, is
prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
structure, the Building Inspector may cause such structure to be removed or
demolished.
   (C)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien upon the real
property upon which cost was incurred. If the structure is removed or
demolished by the Building Inspector, he shall sell the materials of the
structure and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the
removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
circuit court by the Building Inspector, shall be secured in such manner as may
be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons
found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99)
UNSAFE, UNFIT OR HAZARDOUS STRUCTURES
§ 154.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER. Includes but is not limited to any vehicle,
including the equipment sold as a part of a vehicle, which is so constructed as
to permit its being used as a conveyance upon public streets or highways by
either self-propelled or non-self-propelled means, which is designed,
constructed, or re-constructed, or added to by means of an enclosed addition or
room, in such a manner as will permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling or
sleeping place, having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting, or
other temporary supports.
   STRUCTURE. Includes but is not limited to any residential or commercial
building, and any other improvement or appurtenance associated therewith,
including garages, carports and sheds.
   UNFIT, UNSAFE, OR HAZARDOUS. As it relates to a structure shall mean
structures that are so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or
unstable that partial or complete collapse is likely, or structures that are
unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and debris, or lacks the
facilities essential for human occupation or structures that are a dangerous
attractive nuisance to children.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.41 PROHIBITION OF UNFIT, UNSAFE, OR HAZARDOUS STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any real property located within the
city to permit any structure or mobile home or trailer upon their property to
become unfit, unsafe, or hazardous for human habitation, occupancy or use, or
to permit conditions to exist within or in proximity of the structure which are
dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of any occupants of the
structure, or any occupants of any neighboring structures, or any residents of
the city.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.42 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Maintenance Superintendent of the city is hereby appointed and
authorized as the enforcement officer under this subchapter, whose purpose and
authority shall be to carry out and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
The enforcement officer shall have authority to inspect any structure upon the
enforcement officer’s finding of reasonable cause to believe that such
structure is in violation of §
154.41 of this subchapter. The enforcement officer shall have the right to
inspect the structure at all reasonable times and to perform any duty imposed
upon him or her by this subchapter, provided that the enforcement officer shall
first provide notice and request entry from the owner of the structure. The
enforcement officer shall attempt to make arrangements with the owner by
telephone, email or other electronic correspondence, or in person, as to the
occurrence of the inspection at least 24 hours prior to the inspection. If
direct communication cannot be obtained, the enforcement officer may post on
the structure’s front facade written notice of the occurrence of an inspection
within 48 hours of posting. If such entry is refused, the enforcement officer
shall have all rights and remedies as provided by law to secure entry including
any application for a search warrant or other authorization from any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13; Am. Ord. 622, passed 8-4-15)
§ 154.43 ISSUANCE OF WRITTEN NOTICE OF DEFICIENCIES.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement officer shall determine that a structure is in
noncompliance with the provisions of §
154.41 of this subchapter, the enforcement officer shall issue a written notice
to the owner of the property with regard to the deficiencies of the structure.
Such notice shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   A specification of the identity of the structure, and a description
of the real property upon which the structure is located;
      (2)   A specification of the deficiencies of the structure, which renders
the structure to be in noncompliance with §
154.41 of this subchapter;
      (3)   A demand that the noted deficiencies be remedies within a
reasonable period of time, as determined by the enforcement officer in his or
her reasonable discretion, but in no event, not less than 30 days following the
issuance of the notice;
      (4)   A notification to the owner that in the event the owner fails to
cure and remedy the deficiencies within the time period as determined by the
enforcement officer, the city will have the structure demolished at the owner’s
cost; and
      (5)   A notification to the owner that the owner has the right to appeal
the determination made by the enforcement officer to the City Council by making
a written demand for a hearing before the City Council, and serving such
written demand upon the Clerk of the city within 30 days following the owner’s
receipt of the written notice. The notification shall further provide that in
the event that the owner fails to make such written demand upon the City
Council, the owner shall have no further right to appeal the action taken by
the enforcement officer.
   (B)   The enforcement officer shall cause the written notice to be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
owner of the property, as such address appears on the current tax assessment
roll. In the event an owner is a resident of the city, the enforcement officer
shall have the authority to personally serve such written notice upon the owner
in lieu of mailing such written notice. In the event of personal service upon
any owner, the enforcement officer shall make an affidavit evidencing such
personal service.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.44 FAILURE OF OWNER TO COMPLY WITH THE WRITTEN NOTICE.
   In the event the owner shall fail to cure and remedy the noted deficiencies
in the written notice within the time as set forth in such written notice, the
enforcement officer is authorized, empowered, and directed to cause the
structure to be demolished, provided that in the event the owner has made
written demand for a hearing before the City Council within the 30 day period,
any action of the enforcement officer is stayed pending the outcome of the
hearing before the City Council.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.45 HEARING.
   In the event the owner of the structure makes written demand for a hearing
before the City Council in the manner as provided in this subchapter, the City
Council shall conduct a hearing with regard to the determination and directives
made by the enforcement officer in the written notice. The hearing shall be
conducted by the City Council within 60 days following the Clerk’s receipt of
the written demand. As to such hearing, the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   The owner shall have the right to counsel;
   (B)   The owner shall have the right to give testimony in the owner’s
behalf, to subpoena witnesses, to cross-examine the enforcement officer and any
other witness, to offer proof in support of the owner’s position, and to
otherwise enjoy all other rights and privileges guaranteed by law;
   (C)   The proceedings shall be recorded and transcribed; and
   (D)   The City Council shall have the right to have legal counsel present to
advise them throughout the proceedings.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.46 DETERMINATION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   At the culmination of the hearing, the City Council shall make a
determination with regard to the issues presented before the City Council. The
determination shall be by majority vote of the members of the City Council that
are present at the hearing. The City Council shall have the right to have its
legal counsel present during their deliberations. The City Council shall have
the right to affirm or deny the enforcement officer’s determination and the
directives as set forth in the written notice, or make such other modifications
to the determination or directives as deemed appropriate by the City Council.
The City Council shall have the right to go into executive session during their
deliberations, provided that any final determination made by the City Council
be made in open session. The determination made by the City Council shall be
reduced to writing, reflect the date of the entry, and be signed by the members
of the City Council who voted in favor of such determination.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.47 RIGHT TO APPEAL TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   Any owner who is aggrieved by the written determination made by the City
Council shall have the right to appeal such determination to the Ballard
Circuit Court within 30 days following the entry of the City Council’s
determination.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.48 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF CURE OR DEMOLITION.
   The enforcement officer shall account for all costs and expenses for labor
and materials incurred by the city with regard to the demolition of the
structure. The accounting made by the enforcement officer shall be verified
under oath. Each owner of the structure shall be jointly and severally liable
to the city for reimbursement of such costs and expenses, plus interest thereon
at the legal rate of 8% per annum.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.49 LIEN; COLLECTION ON DEBT.
   In the event the owner fails to pay such costs and expenses within 30 days
following demand for payment by the city, then and in that case, the
enforcement officer shall cause to be recorded in the Ballard County Court
Clerk’s Office, a sworn statement evidencing the costs and expenses incurred by
the city, plus accruing interest, and the location of the real property upon
which the structure is located. Such sworn statement shall also evidence the
right of the city to asset a lien against such real property in accordance with
the provisions of KRS 381.770(5). Upon recordation of such sworn statement,
such sworn statement shall be deemed and constitute a lien upon the real
property and shall remain in full legal force and effect for the amount due in
principal and interest until final payment has been made. The sworn statement
shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied
with and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount due
constitutes a charge against the property designated and described in the
statement and that the same is due and collectable as provided by law. Such
lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings. Additionally the city shall have all other rights and remedies as
provided by law with regard to the collection of a debt.
(Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or any
provision of any rule or regulation adopted by the Inspector pursuant to
authority granted by this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as set
forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
154.40 through
154.49 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days or
both, for each offense. Each day that a violation continues after written
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 535, passed 6-1-99; Am. Ord. 601, passed 4-2-13)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   CITY BOUNDARIES; ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BOND ISSUES
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
370      10-3-60     Authorizing a contract in connection with the acquisition
                     of a waterworks system by the city
                     Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
493      6-1-93      insurance, authorizing the execution of the Interlocal
                     Cooperation Agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal
                     Risk Management Association
524      3-3-98      Authorizing a Trust Participation Agreement for
                     participation in the Kentucky Risk Management Association
                     Authorizing an interlocal agreement for the formation of
532      4-13-99     the Purchase Area Telecommuni- cations Authority to
                     monitor and manage the evaluation and development of a
                     regional telecommunicatio ns system
 
TABLE II: CITY BOUNDARIES; ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
340      2-4-52      Describing the corporate limits of the city.
                     Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the
                     west line of the Illinois Central Railroad right- of-way
401      9-9-68      at a point where the east line of Tenth Street, if
                     extended southward, would intersect with the west line of
                     the right-of-way
                     Annexing certain territory adjacent to the north city
415      1-6-75      limits and being in the general area of the IGA Foodliner
                     store and north of Kentucky Highway No. 286
                     Annexing certain unincorporated territory east of the
558A     8-1-04      current city boundaries and along Route 286 towards
                     Paducah up to Buck Road.
638A     11-21-18    Accepting dedication of Lane Boulevard
658      10-13-22    Accepting dedication of C. Geveden Boulevard
659      10-13-22    Accepting dedication of Giles Lane
                    
 
TABLE III: BOND ISSUES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
372  - -60  Authorizing water system revenue bonds in the amount of $138,000
     7-11-  Authorizing industrial building revenue bonds in the amount of
394  67     $80,000,000 in connection with building and facilities for use as an
            industrial plant for the manufacture of pulp and paper
416  3-12-  Authorizing the issuance of $3,200,000 of pollution control revenue bonds
     75     (Westvaco Corporation Project)
420  4-20-  Authorizing the issuance of $4,100,000 of pollution control revenue
     77     bonds, (Westvaco project)
423  2-14-  Supplementing Ord. 394 and issuing $15,300,000 of industrial building
     79     revenue bonds
431  5-16-  Authorizing the issuance of $4,100,000 of pollution control revenue bonds
     80     (Westvaco Project)
511  - -96  Authorizing the issuance of $14,400,000 of pollution control facilities
            refunding revenue bonds (Westvaco Corp. project)
513  - -96  Authorizing the issuance of $5,740,000 of solid waste disposal facility
            revenue bonds
531  11-5-  Authorizing the issuance of $395,000 water revenue bonds
     98
539A 9-5-00 Authorizing the issuance and sale of $745,000 water revenue bonds.
544  10-16- Authorizing the issuance of pollution control and solid waste disposal
     01     revenue bonds in the amount of $17,245,000.
     11-6-  Amending bond financing documents in connection with solid waste disposal
545  01     facility revenue bonds and pollution control revenue bonds - Ordinances
            431 (1980) and 511 (1996)
545A 2-17-  Amending bond financing documents in connection with pollution control
     02     and solid waste disposal revenue bonds - Ordinance 544 (2001)
619  6-11-  Amending documents relating to the city’s solid waste disposal facility
     15     revenue bonds, Series 1996 and Series 1997A
626  3-1-16 Amending documents relating to the city’s solid waste disposal facility
            revenue bonds, series 1997A
           
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
500      9-7-94      Providing for the sale of a franchise for a telephone
                     system within the city
                     Providing for the transfer of the cable television
501      9-6-94      franchise from Galaxy Cablevision, L.P. to Galaxy TeleCom,
                     Inc.
504      12-6-94     Electric franchise
508      9-8-95      Granting a cable TV franchise to Galaxy TeleCom, L.P. for
                     a period of 15 years
530      9-2-98      Amending Ord. 432 to grant a restructuring plan for Galaxy
                     TeleCom L.P.
536      9-7-99      Amending Ord. 508 by granting a restructuring plan for
                     Galaxy Telecom, L.P.
                     Renewing the cable TV franchise with Galaxy Cable, Inc.
551      3-6-03      for and additional 3 years after the initial 15 year
                     contract
593      7-6-10      Granting a cable franchise to Zito Midwest LLC
613      11-3-14     Creating an electric franchise and providing for the sale
                     of the franchise by bid
624      6-6-15      Creating a franchise for the collection and disposal of
                     residential and commercial trash and refuse
646      9-14-20     Creating a franchise for the collection and disposal of
                     residential and commercial trash and refuse
657      10-13-22    Creating a telecommunications franchise and providing for
                     the sale of the franchise by bid
660      11-10-22    Creating a non-exclusive franchise for a cable system
                    
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Closing certain alleys and streets in the city, said
                     alleys and streets situated south of Court Street and west
411      3-4-74      of the I.C.G.R.R. right-of-way; and authorizing the filing
                     of a suit in the Ballard Circuit Court pursuant to the
                     provisions of KRS 94.360
412      5-6-74      Amending Ord. 411 to include additional portions of
                     streets
                     Closing a certain alley or street in the city situated in
467      8-4-87      block 21 and running from Sixth Street to Fifth Street
                     (unbuilt)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section            Code Section
6.050                  32.48
6.955 - 6.975          33.04
Ch. 13A                93.02
Ch. 13B                93.06
15.409                 34.16
Ch. 18A                113.03
18A.225(2)             113.03
18A.228                113.03
Ch. 31                 34.16
41.240(4)              33.05
42.450 - 42.495        33.04
43.050                 33.04
Ch. 45A                34.16
Ch. 56                 34.16
Ch. 61                 32.21
61.168                 34.16
61.169                 34.16
61.823(2)–(4)        91.15
61.870                 34.01
61.870 - 61.882        31.36
61.870 - 61.884        34.17
61.872(4)              34.06
61.872(5)              34.07
61.872(6)              34.08
61.872 - 61.884        37.06
61.874(1)-(3)          34.12
61.874(3),(4)          34.13
61.874(5)              34.14
61.874(6)              34.15
                       34.01,
61.878                 34.16,
                       50.120
61.878(1)              34.16
61.880                 34.09
61.880(1)              34.16
61.884                 34.11
62.020                 31.01
65.003                 37.12
65.067                 31.01
65.120                 Ch. 72
65.510 et seq.         36.20
65.760(3)              96.01
65.8831                92.05
65.8840                Ch. 92
66.660                 91.06
76.539                 50.020
78.510(21)             31.04
83A.150                31.21
83A.010(5)             10.02
83A.010(6)             10.02
83A.010(8)             10.02
83A.030(1)             30.02
83A.040(1),(2),(6)     31.21
83A.040(2)(c)          31.21
83A.040(2)(d)          31.21
83A.040(3)             31.21
83A.040(4)             32.01
83A.040(5)             32.02
83A.040(6)             32.02
83A.040(7)             31.21,
                       32.02
83A.040(8)             31.21,
                       32.02
83A.040(9)             31.03
83A.045                31.20
83A.045(2)(b)1.        31.20
83A.050                31.20
83A.060(1)             32.35
83A.060(2)             32.36
83A.060(3)             32.37
83A.060(4),(7)         32.38
83A.060(5)             32.40
83A.060(6)             32.22
83A.060(8)             32.41,
                       32.42
83A.060(9)             32.43
83A.060(10)            32.44
83A.060(11)            32.45
83A.060(12),(13)       32.46
83A.060(14)            32.47
83A.060(15)            32.48
83A.070                31.02
83A.075                31.02
83A.080(1),(2)         31.35
83A.080(2)             31.03
83A.080(3),(4)         31.20
83A.085                31.36
83A.130                31.21
83A.130(1)             30.01
83A.130(2)             30.02
83A.130(3)             31.21
83A.130(4)             31.21,
                       154.26
83A.130(5)             32.20
83A.130(6)             32.39
83A.130(7)             31.21
83A.130(8)             31.21
83A.130(9)             31.21
83A.130(10)            31.21
83A.130(11)            32.03,
                       32.21
83A.130(12)            32.03
83A.130(13)            32.03
83A.170                31.20
83A.175                32.02
91A.010(6)             33.01
91A.010(7)             33.01
91A.010(8)             10.02
91A.020                33.02
91A.030                33.03
91A.030(7)             33.03
91A.040                33.04
91A.050                33.04
91A.060                33.05
91A.080(2)             113.02
91A.080(3),(10)        113.03
91A.080(8)             113.05
91A.080(8),(9)         113.04
91A.200                33.11
91A.210                33.10
91A.220                33.11
91A.230                33.12
91A.240                33.13
91A.250                33.14
91A.260                33.15
91A.270                33.17
91A.280                33.17
91A.290                33.18
95.019                 36.06
                       151.01,
                       152.03,
Ch. 100                153.01,
                       153.03,
                       153.04
Ch. 107                33.11
Ch. 118                31.20
131.010(6)             113.04
131.190                34.16
132.285                35.01
134.800                35.04
134.810                35.04
Ch. 136                35.15
Ch. 154                34.16
174.100                91.15
174.100(1)             91.16
174.100(2)             91.17
174.100(3)             91.18
174.100(4)             91.19
174.100(5)             91.20
178.290                91.06
186.020                73.05
186.050                73.05
186.190                72.06
186A.145               72.22
186A.190               72.22
Ch. 189                73.05
189.020                71.27
189.080                73.05
189.285                73.03
189.287                73.01
189.290                71.25
189.330(8)             71.02
189.338                70.15
189.394                Ch. 74, Sch II
189.450(5),(6)         72.03
186.560                71.25
189.580                71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. - e. 34.01
189.725                72.08
189.820                73.05
189.930                71.26
189.990(1)             72.99
189.993(8)             71.99
190.010(6),(8),(11)    92.01
196.099                34.01
Ch. 198B               150.03
198B.070               150.03
198B.990(1)            150.99
224.20-720             73.05
224.73                 50.020
226.010                112.01
226.020                112.02
226.030                112.07
226.040                112.03
226.050                112.04
226.060                112.08
226.070                112.03
226.080                112.06
226.090                112.06
226.100                112.08
226.990(1)             112.99
226.990(3)             112.99
227.550                92.02
227.750 - 227.750      93.06
227.700                93.01
227.702                93.01,
                       93.02
227.704                93.01
227.706                93.01
227.708                93.01
227.710                93.01,
                       93.02
227.715                93.02,
                       93.03
227.715(6)-(8)         93.03
227.720                93.04
227.730                93.05
227.750                93.06
227.990(1)             150.99
227.990(4)             93.99
257.100                90.06
257.100(4)             90.01
Ch. 281                72.21
281.010                92.01
281.920 - 281.936      72.22
281.926                72.22
281.928                72.22
281.928(1)             72.22
281.932                72.22
304.39-080             73.05
318.990                150.99
376.275(1)             72.22
376.275(2)             72.22
381.770(5)             154.49
401-8.010.81600        50.020
411.500 - 411.570      Ch. 92
413.072                92.01
                       32.43,
Ch. 424                33.04,
                       33.14,
                       33.15
424.220                33.04
436.600                90.04,
                       90.99
446.010(1)             10.02
446.010(2)             10.02
446.010(8)             10.02
446.010(9)             10.02
446.010(10)            10.02
446.010(12)            10.02
446.010(13)            10.02
446.010(14)            10.02
446.010(15)            10.02
446.010(17)            10.02
446.010(18)            10.02
446.010(23)            10.02
446.010(25)            10.02
446.010(26)            10.02
446.010(27)            10.02
446.010(28)            10.02
446.010(30)            10.02
446.010(31)            10.02
446.010(33)            10.02
446.010(36)            10.02
446.010(37)            10.02
446.010(39)            10.02
446.010(43)            10.02
446.010(46)            10.02
446.010(47)            10.02
446.010(49)            10.02
446.010(55)            10.02
446.020(1)             10.03
446.020(2)             10.03
446.030                10.04
446.050                10.05
446.060                10.06
446.080(1)             10.03
446.080(3)             10.03
446.080(4)             10.03
446.090                10.07
446.100                10.08
446.110                10.09
446.140                10.01
520.010                34.01
525.125                90.03
525.130                90.03,
                       90.99
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
14       - -         130.01
301      - -         Ch. 74, Sch. III
302      5-1-39      90.07
318      - -44       90.08
331      6-6-49      110.01,
                     110.02
332      6-5-50      71.65
337      11-5-51     70.35 -
                     70.38
340      2-4-52      T.S.O. II
345      9-2-52      72.03
346      4-5-54      Ch. 75, Sch. I
363      5-2-58      52.01 -
                     52.09
365      11-3-58     Ch. 75, Sch. II
370      10-3-60     T.S.O. I
371      11-7-60     Ch. 74, Sch. II
372      - -60       T.S.O. III
374      7-10-61     31.36
377      12-4-61     93.22
391-A    2-6-67      70.37,
                     70.38
392      4-3-67      72.06
394      7-11-67     T.S.O. III
396      1-1-68      153.01 -
                     153.06
401      9-9-68      T.S.O. II
411      3-4-74      T.S.O. V
412      5-6-74      T.S.O. V
415      1-6-75      T.S.O. II
416      3-12-75     T.S.O. III
418      11-4-75     Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
419      1-5-76      Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
420      4-20-77     T.S.O. III
423      2-14-79     T.S.O. III
430      5-6-80      Ch. 75, Sch. II
431      5-16-80     T.S.O. III
435      12-2-80     70.37
438      - -81       33.03
441      9-17-81     52.01,
                     52.09
442      12-10-81    70.37
455      7-2-85      36.06
                     95.01 -
456      7-2-85      95.10,
                     95.99
                     53.01 -
466      7-7-87      53.03,
                     53.99
465      8-4-87      113.01 -
                     113.05
467      8-4-87      T.S.O. V
474      6-13-89     Ch. 74, Sch. I
475      7-17-89     36.20,
                     36.21
476      7-17-89     31.04
481      2-5-91      96.01
482      3-5-91      33.06
486      10-1-91     152.01 -
                     152.03
488      - -92       51.01 -
                     51.09
491      4-6-93      96.02
493      6-1-93      T.S.O. I
494      6-1-93      152.02,
                     152.03
                     151.01 -
                     151.11,
                     151.25 -
497      12-7-93     151.29,
                     151.40 -
                     151.42,
                     151.99
501      9-6-94      T.S.O. IV
500      9-7-94      T.S.O. IV
502      10-4-94     32.21
503      10-4-94     37.01 -
                     37.12
504      12-6-94     T.S.O. IV
508      9-8-95      T.S.O. IV
509      12-5-95     152.01
510      3-5-96      31.20
511      - -96       T.S.O. III
513      - -96       T.S.O. III
519A     3-4-97      36.07
520      5-6-97      35.15
524      3-3-98      T.S.O. I
527      5-5-98      33.07
528      7-7-98      110.02,
                     110.99
530      9-2-98      T.S.O. IV
531      11-5-98     T.S.O. III
532      4-13-99     T.S.O. I
533      5-4-99      36.01 -
                     36.05
                     36.07,
                     50.05,
                     52.03,
                     90.07,
                     95.04,
                     151.41,
535      6-1-99      151.42,
                     154.01,
                     154.10 -
                     154.16,
                     154.25 -
                     154.29,
                     154.99
536      9-7-99      T.S.O. IV
539A     9-5-00      T.S.O. III
540      10-4-00     130.02,
                     130.99
541      4-3-01      Adopting Ordinance
544      10-16-01    T.S.O. III
545      11-6-01     T.S.O. III
545A     2-17-02     T.S.O. III
546      3-5-02      71.28,
                     71.99
549      10-1-02     36.20,
                     36.21
550      2-4-03      53.04
551      3-6-03      T.S.O. IV
551      4-8-03      152.10,
                     152.11
                     90.30 -
553      6-6-03      90.33,
                     90.99
554      7-1-03      Adopting Ordinance
556      12-2-03     53.02,
                     53.05
558      6-1-04      52.03
558A     8-1-04      T.S.O. II
560      10-5-04     Adopting Ordinance
567      3-7-06      32.21
                     92.01,
570      7-3-06      92.02,
                     92.99
576      11-5-07     Adopting Ordinance
577      5-5-08      38.01
581      9-2-08      Adopting Ordinance
                     92.01,
592      7-14-10     92.02,
                     92.99
593      7-6-10      T.S.O. IV
                     94.01 -
594      10-4-11     94.03,
                     94.09,
                     94.99
595      11-1-11     96.01
596      1-11-12     32.21
598      7-3-12      96.03
599      6-5-12      53.02
                     154.40 -
601      4-2-13      154.49,
                     154.99
602      4-2-13      53.02
605      8-6-13      73.01,
                     73.05
607      5-6-14      Adopting Ordinance
608      6-23-14     32.21
610      6-23-14     33.06
613      11-3-14     T.S.O. IV
616      3-3-15      113.02,
                     113.03
618      6-11-15     33.06
619      6-11-15     TSO III
621      8-4-15      32.21
622      8-4-15      154.42
624      10-6-15     T.S.O. IV
625      3-1-16      130.03,
                     130.99
626      3-1-16      TSO III
                     92.01 -
632      10-4-16     92.07,
                     92.99
636      6-19-18     32.21
638A     11-21-18    TSO II
638      3-14-19     92.03
639      3-14-19     32.21
646      9-14-20     TSO IV
647      5-13-21     53.02
651      11-10-21    73.05
652      11-10-21    35.01 -
                     35.03
                     50.001 -
                     50.004,
                     50.020 -
                     50.033,
                     50.045 -
                     50.048,
                     50.060 -
                     50.076,
                     50.085 -
653      11-15-21    50.098,
                     50.110,
                     50.111,
                     50.120,
                     50.125,
                     50.130 -
                     50.137,
                     50.145 -
                     50.148,
                     50.160 -
                     50.162
657      10-13-22    TSO IV
658      10-13-22    TSO II
659      10-13-22    TSO II
660      11-20-22    TSO IV
664      3-14-24     92.01 - 92.7,
                     92.99
665      5-9-24      50.032
                     90.45 -
668      8-8-24      90.48,
                     90.99
671      10-10-24    32.21
                    
 
 
