WILMORE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2024-6, passed 7-1-2024,
and Municipal Order No. 3, passed 9-21-2020; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com 
ORDINANCE #692-16
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WILMORE,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Wilmore are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Wilmore has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Wilmore
that:
Section l. The general ordinances of the City of Wilmore as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Wilmore.”
Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
10. Rules of Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
30. Council, Officials and Organizations
31. Finance and Revenue
32. Disaster and Emergency Services
33. Police Department
34. General Policies
35. Drug-Free Workplace Policy
36. Code of Ethics
37. Public Records
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
50. Utilities Generally
51. Water
52. Sewers
53. Solid Waste
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
70. General Provisions
71. Parking Rules
72. Recreational Vehicles
73. Traffic Schedules
74. Parking Schedules
TITLE IX. GENERAL REGULATIONS
90. Trees
91. Fair Housing
92. Cemeteries
93. Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
94. Animals
95. Fire Prevention and Protection
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
110. General Provisions
111. Occupational License Taxes and Fees
112. Insurance Companies
113. Peddlers, itinerant Merchants and Solicitors
114. Wrecker Services; Vehicle Storage Facilities
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
130. General Offenses
131. Weapons
132. Curfew
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
150. Flood Damage Prevention
151. Streets and Public Property
152. Signs and Building Regulations
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Annexations and Boundaries
      II.   Zoning Map Changes
      Ill.   Franchises and Agreements
      IV.   Real Estate Transactions
      V.   Streets and Public Property
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided
that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or
any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting
dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Wilmore is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the
City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date
of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
Councilmember James made the motion, seconded by Councilmember Deyer to approve
the first reading of the Ordinance 692-16 on October 17, 2016. Voting yes:
Baier, Brumfield, Cooper, Deyer, Fitch and James. Voting no: 0.
Councilmember James made the motion, seconded by Councilmember Cooper to
approve the second reading of the Ordinance 692-16 on November 21, 2016. Voting
yes: Baier, Brumfield, Cooper, Deyer, Fitch and James. Voting no: 0
Harold L. Rainwater /s/
Harold L. Rainwater, Mayor
ATTEST:
Sharon Moore /s/
Sharon Moore, City Clerk
Published: 12-8-16
ORDINANCE #8-17
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WILMORE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2017 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Wilmore,
which Supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
codification of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Wilmore, Kentucky; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing has recommended the revision or addition
of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or make
reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wilmore:
   SECTION 1. That the 2017 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wilmore, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
Passed October 2, 2017.
Passed on first reading: September 18, 2017
Adopted on second reading: October 2, 2017
                  /s/ Harold L. Rainwater
                  Mayor Harold L. Rainwater
ATTEST:
/s/ Sharon Moore
Sharon Moore, City Clerk
ORDINANCE #12-19
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WILMORE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Wilmore,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wilmore:
   SECTION 1. That the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wilmore, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   THE MOTION to accept this ordinance was made on the 5th day of August, 2019
by Councilmember  Baier  and seconded by Councilmember  Deyer . Voting yes: (6)
Voting no: (0).
   GIVEN a second reading on the 19th day of August, 2019 by Councilmember
Deyer  and seconded by Councilmember  Brumfield . Voting yes: (5) Voting no
(0).
   ATTEST:
/s/ Sharon Moore                /s/ Harold L. Rainwater
Sharon Moore, City Clerk               Harold L. Rainwater, Mayor
Publication date in Jessamine Journal: August 23, 2019
ORDINANCE #3-20
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF WILMORE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Wilmore,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Wilmore:
   SECTION 1. That the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Wilmore, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   THE MOTION to accept this ordinance was made on the 20th day of July, 2020
by Councilmember  Brumfield  and seconded by Councilmember  Riel . Voting yes:
(6) Voting no: ( ).
   GIVEN a second reading on the 3rd day of August, 2020 by Councilmember
Deyer  and seconded by Councilmember  Brumfield . Voting yes: (5) Voting no
( ).
ATTEST:
/s/ Sharon Moore                /s/ Harold L. Rainwater
Sharon Moore, City Clerk               Harold L. Rainwater, Mayor
Publication date in Jessamine Journal: August 8, 2020
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
   
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Wilmore Code”, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of the state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Wilmore, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Jessamine County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of the state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. The United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Wilmore, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order
of court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act,
event or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not
to be included.
      (2)   The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned.
      (3)   When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven
days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in
the computation.
   (B)   (1)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act
to be done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the
day on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in
computing the time.
      (2)   If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is
required to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on
which the public office in which the act is required to be completed is
actually and legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none
of the days just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto, it
shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the end
or close of the writing. Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in
the English language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect; except that, the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   A method of amendment should be used by the city to amend, add or
repeal a chapter, section or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
         or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
   
30.   COUNCIL, OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
   
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
   
32.   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
   
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
34.   GENERAL POLICIES
   
35.   DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
   
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
   
37.   PUBLIC RECORDS
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL, OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Elections and primaries
   
30.02   Classification plan, compensation plan; policies
   
30.03   Employees retirement plan
   
30.04   Form of government
   
30.05   Governing officers
City Council
   
30.15   Council meetings
   
30.16   Work sessions
   
30.17   Members
   
30.18   General government
Officials
   
30.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
30.31   City Attorney
   
30.32   City Clerk
   
30.33   Mayor; creation of contracts, agreements
Organizations
   
30.45   Joint Industrial Development Authority
   
30.46   Zoning Commission
Ordinances
   
30.60   One subject; title
   
30.61   Introduction; enacting clause
   
30.62   Form of amendment
   
30.63   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
30.64   Approval, disapproval by mayor
   
30.65   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
30.66   Official city records
   
30.67   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
30.68   Publication requirements
   
30.69   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
30.70   Periodic review required
   
30.71   Municipal orders
   
30.72   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
30.73   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   Nicholasville/Wilmore/Jessamine County Joint Tourism Commission, see §§
31.40 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS AND PRIMARIES.
   (A)   (1)   The city, by and through the City Council, does hereby adopt and
ratify the provisions of KRS 83A.045 providing for a non-partisan election, as
defined in the aforesaid statute.
      (2)   All elections shall be held in accordance with the provisions
contained in KRS 83A.045 and shall be effective in the next general election
held at least 240 days after the adoption of this division (A).
   (B)   The city, by and through the City Council, does hereby adopt and
ratify that provision of KRS 83A.045, which allows it to forego conducting a
non-partisan primary for the election of candidates to city offices and as a
result of same, no such non-partisan primary shall be held in the future for
these offices.
(Ord. 386-92, passed 12-21-1992; Ord. 387-92, passed 12-21-1992)
§ 30.02 CLASSIFICATION PLAN, COMPENSATION PLAN; POLICIES.
   (A)   The classification plan, compensation plan and policies and procedures
attached to the ordinance codified herein shall be a guideline for the system
of personnel administration for the city.
   (B)   The classification plan, compensation plan and policies and procedures
herein may be waived, altered or suspended only by a change of ordinance.
(Ord. 513-01, passed 9-17-2001)
§ 30.03 EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT PLAN.
   (A)   This city be and is hereby authorized to participate in the county’s
Employees Retirement System and that all eligible regular full-time officers
and employees of this city are hereby authorized and directed to comply with
the statutory requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   All the employees of this city whose duties require an average of 100
hours during each working month be considered as “regular full-time” employees
for county retirement purposes, except those employees of agencies excluded as
shown which may participate in the system as a separate city and those other
persons who are employed as “temporary”, “part-time” and “seasonal” workers, as
defined in KRS 78.510(21) of the county’s employees retirement laws.
(Ord. 431-95, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 30.04 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan,” and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120 govern
the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.05 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of
legislative body members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the county clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of legislative
body members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election
of the number of legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting times for the city shall be conducted at 6:00 p.m. on
the first and third Mondays of each month.
(Ord. 215-76, passed - -1976; Ord. 402-94, passed 2-7-1994)
§ 30.16 WORK SESSIONS.
   The second and fourth Mondays of each month shall be considered work
sessions, with the Council to meet, for the sole purpose of work session, at 7:
00 p.m. on the second and fourth Mondays of each month, unless further
notified.
(Ord. 403-94, passed 2-7-1994)
§ 30.17 MEMBERS.
   (A)   There shall be a total of six Council members for the city to be
elected from the city at-large and not from wards; each shall serve a term of
two years in accordance with KRS 86A.040(4). Each Council member shall be
compensated in the amount of $15 per meeting to commence with the first regular
meeting.
   (B)   The office of Mayor shall be filled in accordance with KRS 86A.040(1)
with a salary for the same to be $100 per month in addition to $25 per meeting.
(Ord. 192, passed 9-30-1973)
§ 30.18 GENERAL GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   The commonwealth’s statutes provide for the government and officials
of a fifth class city. The Mayor is elected for a four-year term and six
Council members are elected for a two-year term.
   (B)   Governmental authority for the city shall be vested in the Mayor and
Council members, who shall be duly elected, appointed and legally qualified to
serve under the laws of the commonwealth relating to the government of cities
of this class.
   (C)   The quorum for the transaction of official business for the city shall
be four duly qualified Council members.
   (D)   In all business and legal matters not specifically provided for by
vote of the Council, the Mayor shall be the official business agent of the city
and shall be its duly constituted agent in all legal and business matters;
except that, in cases requiring specific action by the Council, he or she shall
not act or serve without vote and legal approval of the Council.
   (E)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or by
majority of the Council at any time deemed expedient and necessary.
(KRS 81.005) (Ord. 1, passed - -)
OFFICIALS
§ 30.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080(1))
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be with
approval of City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall
be appointed by the Mayor at will and these appointments need not be approved
by City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a nonelected
officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a written statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this requirement shall
not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal power of the
Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 30.31 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney, as he or she may hereafter be appointed shall be
compensated for services to the city according to the following schedule.
      (1)   For any required action relative to any day-to-day, normal activity
of any branch of government of the city, which shall include, but not be
limited to, meetings with the City Council, advising, at any time, any of the
branches of government with respect to problems, difficulties, duties,
obligations and actions of each, and drafting of any documents necessary to
accomplish and complete the normal business of government, said City Attorney
shall be paid in an amount set by the City Council.
      (2)   For any extraordinary activity which shall include, but not be
limited to, bond issuance, condemnation proceedings, civil suits, annexations,
appellate proceedings or any other matters not commonly encountered in the
ordinary course of business of said city, the City Attorney shall be paid the
sum of in an amount set by the City Council per hour.
      (3)   For any and all necessary actions to enforce payment of delinquent
taxes or accounts owed to said city, the City Attorney shall be paid a fee
equal to 25% of any sums collected.
   (B)   (1)   The City Attorney shall serve as delinquent Tax Collector for
all property taxes that become delinquent. The City Clerk and/or City Treasurer
shall turn over to the City Attorney’s office all delinquent taxes for the
previous property tax year on February 1. The City Attorney will then promptly
seek to recover all such taxes and is authorized to use whatever legal process,
including the initiation of a lawsuit if necessary, to collect same. All taxes
collected by the City Attorney will be promptly paid to the City Treasurer for
proper credit. The City Attorney shall be additionally paid a fee of 25% of all
delinquent property taxes, penalty and interest paid after June 1 for the
previous tax year with a minimum of $75 per tax bill. Said additional fees
shall be paid by the taxpayer. If litigation is required, the court shall
determine and order a reasonable attorney fee for the City Attorney service
rendered in the collection of the tax.
      (2)   The City Attorney is authorized to initiate litigation against any
and all individuals owing delinquent tax bills when said bills are turned over
to the City Attorney by the City Clerk on February 1 of each year.
(Ord. 256-82, passed 3-15-1982; Ord. 681-2015, passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 9-17,
passed 10-2-2017)
§ 30.32 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information, including but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Councilmembers, and the correct name, telephone number, and
electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (6)   Once the information required to be reported under division (C)(4)
is compiled by the Department for Local Government, the department shall
forward one electronic copy of the compiled information to the Legislative
Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 30.33 MAYOR; CREATION OF CONTRACTS, AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioner of Highways of the commonwealth under the
provisions of KRS 177.042 shall designate as a necessary part of the connecting
links of the state primary road system any street, viaduct or bridge in the
corporate limits of the city, and thereby undertake under the provisions of
said Act the future maintenance, repair, construction and reconstruction of
such streets or other facilities as now provided by law for the maintenance of
other roads in the state primary road system, the Mayor of the city is
expressly empowered and directed to enter into any and all agreements with the
said Department of Highways necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of
the said Act of the General Assembly.
   (B)   Whenever the Commissioner of Highways has so designated any street,
viaduct or bridge or other facilities in the city as a part of the state
primary system of roads, as in the said act provided, the Department of
Highways of the commonwealth is, for the purpose of such construction under the
provisions of said Act, expressly designated and appointed as the agent of the
city in such construction work and no further.
   (C)   The Mayor of the city is hereby expressly authorized, empowered and
directed to convey to the commonwealth all rights-of-way for the use and
benefit of the Department of Highways of the commonwealth, to any streets,
viaduct or bridges effected by said act whenever the Department of Highways
designate the same as part of the state primary roads.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-10-1943)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.45 JOINT INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   A joint non-profit industrial development authority pursuant to KRS
154.50-316 be established with the county and city as joint creators of the
authority and said authority shall be a body politic and corporate with the
usual corporate attributes, and in its corporate name, may sue and be sued,
contract and be contracted within and do all things reasonable or necessary to
effectively carry out the duties prescribed by KRS 154.50-301 to 154.50-346.
   (B)   The Joint Industrial Development Authority (non-profit) is established
with the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   The county and the city shall enact ordinances agreeing to the
establishment of this non-profit Joint Industrial Development Authority.
      (2)   The county and the city shall execute a written agreement with all
three parties and the Joint Industrial Development Authority that the authority
may be dissolved and upon such complete termination, all funds, property and
other assets held by the Joint Industrial Authority shall be returned to the
City of Nicholasville, the county and the City of Wilmore are in the same
proportion as contributions of funds, property and other assets were made by
such cities and county.
      (3)   (a)   Six members of the authority shall serve for a term of four
years each, and until their successors are appointed or qualified with initial
appointments to be made so that: two members are appointed for two years; two
members are appointed for three years; two members are appointed for four
years. No members shall be appointed for two successive terms.
         (b)   The county’s Judge Executive shall appoint three members of the
authority (two members for two-year terms and one member for a three-year
term), the Mayor of Nicholasville shall appoint two members of the authority
(two members for four-year terms) and the Mayor of Wilmore shall appoint one
member of the authority (one member for a three-year term).
         (c)   Upon expiration of these staggered terms, successors shall be
appointed by the appointing authorities as set forth herein (three by the
county’s Judge Executive, two by the Mayor of the City of Nicholasville and one
by Mayor of the City of Wilmore) for terms of four years.
      (4)   The authority shall file all minutes with the county’s Clerk and
the Nicholasville City Clerk and the Wilmore City Clerk within ten days of each
meeting and shall provide for approval of all governmental agencies a copy of
any budget of the authority not less than 90 days before the beginning of the
fiscal year of the authority.
      (5)   All funds of the authority shall be placed in federally insured
accounts and be audited annually by a CPA with the report audit to be submitted
to the governmental agencies within 15 days of completion by the Auditor. At
least two signatures of members of the authority shall be required for
disbursement of funds over $300 with a bond to be acquired as to those members
entrusted with disbursement of funds.
      (6)   The authority shall submit annually, not later than 30 days after
the end of each fiscal year, all receipts and disbursements of any kind, all
assets owned by the authority and all indebtedness of the authority with each
item specifically identified.
      (7)   The authority for the establishment of this joint non-profit
industrial development authority is KRS 154.50-316 and all applicable law. The
city reserves the right to cancel its participation in this joint industrial
development at any time.
      (8)   The joint non-profit industrial development authority shall be
named the “Jessamine County Joint Economic Development Authority” and the
appointed members shall perform all duties and powers permitted by commonwealth
law under KRS Ch. 154.
(Ord. 398-93, passed 8-16-1993)
§ 30.46 ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   In order to avail itself of the powers conferred by KRS 100.300 to
100.600, there is hereby created a City Zoning and Planning Commission
consisting of ten members.
   (B)   Said commission shall assemble at the City Hall at a time fixed by
said Commission and shall prepare recommendations as to the number of zoning
districts to be established in the city and the boundary of such districts.
Said Commission shall also prepare recommendations with respect to the
buildings in each of the said zoning districts. Said regulations shall relate
to the height, number of stories, size of buildings or other structures, the
percentage of the lot that shall be occupied, the size of yards, courts or
other open spaces, the density of population and the location and use of the
buildings, structures and land for trade, residence or other purpose.
   (C)   All meetings of said Commission shall be public and said Commission is
authorized to employ such clerical, architectural or engineering assistance
that may be necessary or helpful.
   (D)   Said Commission will prepare its report and recommendations at the
earliest practicable date for its submission to the Council.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-16-1946)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.60 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 30.61 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Wilmore.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 30.62 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 30.63 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
30.68 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 30.64 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 30.65 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 30.66 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §
30.67, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 30.67 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 30.68 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in § 32.63(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable
until published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 30.69 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 30.70 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 30.71 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 30.72 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 30.73 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 31: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Adopting county’s property tax value assessment
   
31.02   Public sale of real property
   
31.03   Payment of taxes
   
31.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
31.05   Annual audit of city funds
   
31.06   Annual budget ordinance
   
31.07   Delinquency
Growth Impact Fee
   
31.15   Definitions
   
31.16   Relationship between need for additional public facilities and type of
growth
   
31.17   Adjustment of fees
   
31.18   Relationship between amount of fees and cost of facilities attributable
to growth on which fee is imposed
   
31.19   Relationship between fee’s use and type of growth
   
31.20   Payment of fee
   
31.21   Exempted activities
   
31.22   Accounting for funds
   
31.23   Annual findings
Nicholasville/Wilmore/Jessamine County Joint Tourism Commission;
Collection and Enforcement of Transient Room Tax
   
31.40   Creation of Tourism Commission
   
31.41   Commission membership; term; removal; officers and employees; audit
   
31.42   SPGE applicability; fiscal year
   
31.43   Annual budget and transient room tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ADOPTING COUNTY’S PROPERTY TAX VALUE ASSESSMENT.
   The Council of the city adopts the county’s property tax value assessment as
the city’s property tax assessment.
(Ord. 207-75, passed 7-7-1975)
§ 31.02 PUBLIC SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A lien on property will be sold by the city which will add 10% to
unpaid taxes for each year they are unpaid, plus 6% interest.
   (B)   If the property owner has not paid off the amount of the lien within
two years, the purchaser may advertise the property for sale to the highest
bidder, get his or her money, including all expenses involved, and give the
difference to the property owner.
(Ord. 184, passed 1-28-1972)
§ 31.03 PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   (A)   Payment of all taxes assessed and due the city shall be paid to the
Clerk of said city on or before April 30 of each year as per the assessment of
July previous.
   (B)   The penalty, as prescribed by law and act of the Council, shall be
assessed against all property subject to taxation in said city due and unpaid
May 1 of each year, as provided for in division (A) above.
(Ord. 8, passed 1-20-1922)
§ 31.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810, and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 31.05 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) below, each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the
most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every
other fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd- numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population of more than 1,000 but less than 2,000 based
upon the most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit
performed every other fiscal year to cover the two fiscal years occurring since
the prior audit in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
a certified public accountant. The audit shall include both fiscal years since
the prior audit and shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal years to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal years being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (D)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division (D) shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220, and shall not later than October 1, forward one electronic copy to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division (D) for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division (D). An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division (D) shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than
April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division (D)(2)(d) shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement
under KRS 424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an
attestation engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
(KRS 91A.040(1) - (4))
   (E)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city or biennial audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose
intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards, which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (F)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (G)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (H)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee
for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against
the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040(7) - (10))
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A
§ 31.06 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, no monies shall be expended from any governmental
or proprietary fund except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may be in any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant
for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 31.07 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent
taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken
by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities.
GROWTH IMPACT FEE
§ 31.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM. The public facilities which are currently
identified by category in the city’s capital improvement program (CIP), which
is updated annually. This list of public facilities may be added to or deleted
from the CIP, but the City Council directs that this fee shall be used for
public facilities in these categories: government and public safety facilities;
essential infrastructure and related facilities; and cultural and recreation
facilities.
   COSTS OF PUBLIC FACILITIES. Any costs related to acquisition, construction,
repair and financing of public facilities and equipment funded through the
city’s capital improvement program, but does not include costs of routine
maintenance.
   CULTURAL AND RECREATION FACILITIES. Any libraries, auditoriums, concert
halls, parks, playgrounds, ballfields, gymnasiums, recreation play areas,
community centers, aquatic centers and similar facilities located in the city.
   ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE. Any facilities for the storage, treatment and
distribution of potable water; facilities for the collection, treatment,
reclamation and disposal of sewage; facilities for the collection and disposal
of storm waters and for flood-control purposes; facilities for the generation
of electricity and the distribution of gas and electricity; transportation and
transit facilities, including, but not limited: to streets and supporting
improvements, roads, overpasses, bridges and related facilities; and/or any
other capital projects identified in the county/city comprehensive plan which
are not related facilities, cultural and recreation facilities, government
facilities or public safety facilities.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITIES. City Hall, city garage and equipment yard, city
offices and city parking areas and similar facilities in or through which the
city conducts general city operations.
   GROWTH. Construction of a residential unit(s) on a vacant lot, tract or
piece of property or the removal and replacement of a structure resulting in an
increase of residential units.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Government and public safety facilities, essential
infrastructure and related facilities and cultural and recreation facilities.
   PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITIES. Any capital improvements or equipment related to
city police and fire operations.
   RELATED FACILITIES. Any major landscaping, fountains, monuments, signs and
similar facilities and activities of general benefit to the city.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A combination of kitchen, bath, bedroom and living areas
designed and intended to be used as a separate living facility for families or
individuals. Units may be single-family or grouped.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.16 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN NEED FOR ADDITIONAL PUBLIC FACILITIES AND TYPE OF
GROWTH.
   (A)   The City Council is committed to maintaining or improving the same
level of public facilities and services and the same public facilities to
population relationship which existed on 12-19-2005, the date of adoption of
Ord. 554-05, creating and establishing a growth impact fee, in order to ensure
that to the extent city growth occurs in the future, there will be the same
level of public facilities and services that existed on 12-19-2005.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council has determined that residential growth results
in significant increases in city population, and that residential growth
adversely affects the public facilities-to-population relationship which
existed on 12-19-2005.
      (2)   The City Council has further determined that because residential
development results in significant increases in population, this growth results
in the need for additional public facilities.
      (3)   Based on the public facilities-to-population relationship which
existed on 12-19-2005, and the extent to which residential development
contributes to the city’s growth, the City Council determines that residential
growth should be assessed at the following rate as their fair share of
contribution for the costs for these required public facilities:
         (a)   A fee of $3,000 for each new residential unit constructed on
property that was annexed into the city limits after 12-19-2005;
         (b)   A fee of $1,500 for each new residential unit constructed on
property that was within the annexed city limits prior to 12-19-2005; or
         (c)   For any residential unit that is constructed on property that
was within the annexed city limits prior to 12-19-2005, but for which a zone
amendment is requested that increases the zone density (i.e., R-1 to R-2, R-
1 to R-3, R-2 to R-3 and the like), or for which a zone amendment is requested
that changes the designation from non-residential to residential (i.e.,
business or professional to residential), then the fee will be $3,000 per unit
for each new unit of residential construction.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.17 ADJUSTMENT OF FEES.
   These fees may be adjusted each year by a schedule of fees approved by the
City Council, by ordinance, to reflect current costs.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.18 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN AMOUNT OF FEES AND COST OF FACILITIES ATTRIBUTABLE
TO GROWTH ON WHICH FEE IS IMPOSED.
   The City Council determines that there is a reasonable relationship between
the amount of the fees set out in §§
31.16 and
31.17 of this chapter and the cost of the public facilities or portions of them
attributable to the growth on which the fees are imposed.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.19 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN FEE’S USE AND TYPE OF GROWTH.
   The City Council finds that there is a reasonable relationship between the
use of the fee for specified categories of public facilities and the type of
growth for which the fee is imposed for the following reasons.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council finds that the use of fees generated from
commercial and industrial growth for cultural and recreation facilities is not
reasonable because the City Council determines that there is no substantial
demand placed on those facilities as a result of commercial and industrial
growth.
      (2)   Because commercial and industrial growth do increase demand on
government and public safety facilities and essential infrastructure and
related facilities, the City Council finds that the use of fees generated from
commercial and industrial growth for those facilities is reasonable, and will
be dealt with in the future by subsequent ordinance.
   (B)   The City Council finds that the use of fees generated from residential
growth for government and public safety facilities, essential infrastructure,
related facilities and cultural and recreation facilities is reasonable because
growth in the residential population places demand on all such facilities.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.20 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   Any person or entity applying for a building permit for a residential unit
(s) shall be assessed and shall pay the fee in conjunction with payment for the
building permit.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.21 EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES.
   Any person or entity applying for a building permit, which satisfies the
following criteria, shall not be required to pay the fee:
   (A)   An alteration which does not increase the floor area of a structure;
   (B)   An addition to a single-family residential dwelling unit which does
not constitute the addition of a new residential unit(s); or
   (C)   The repair or replacement of an existing residential unit(s).
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.22 ACCOUNTING FOR FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Council directs that all fees collected under this subchapter
shall be maintained in a fund separate from the city’s General Fund. The city
shall utilize the fees in this account, along with any interest earnings, only
for the costs of public facilities as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   If a fee paid pursuant to this subchapter has been retained by the
city for five or more years, and the city has not committed that fee to costs
for public facilities, the City Council shall make findings describing the
continuing need to retain the fee each fiscal year after the first five years.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.23 ANNUAL FINDINGS.
   Each fiscal year, at the time of adoption of the capital improvement
program, the City Council shall do the following:
   (A)   Identify the purposes to which the fees are proposed to be put; and
   (B)   Demonstrate whether there is a reasonable relationship between the
fees and the purposes for which the fees were charged. If the City Council
determines that there is a reasonable relationship, then its determination
shall be supported.
(Ord. 565-05, passed 9-18-2006)
NICHOLASVILLE/WILMORE/JESSAMINE COUNTY JOINT TOURISM COMMISSION; COLLECTION AND
ENFORCEMENT OF TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 31.40 CREATION OF TOURISM COMMISSION.
   In conjunction with the City of Nicholasville and the Fiscal Court for the
County of Jessamine, and the simultaneous enactment by these bodies of similar
ordinances, there is hereby established the Nicholasville/Wilmore/Jessamine
County Joint Tourism Commission. The Commission shall serve and operate under
such terms and conditions as maybe established by the laws of the state and all
applicable ordinances enacted by the establishing bodies.
(Ord. 5-17, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 31.41 COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP; TERM; REMOVAL; OFFICER AND EMPLOYEES; AUDIT.
   (A)   Members. The Commission shall be composed of seven members. Unless
otherwise specified, the members shall be appointed by the joint action and
agreement of the Nicholasville City Mayor, the Wilmore City Mayor and the
Jessamine County Judge Executive, as set forth herein.
   (B)   Appointment of members. In the absence of both a local hotel and motel
association and a local restaurant association at the time of the establishment
of the Commission, the initial Commission members shall be appointed as
follows.
      (1)   Initial appointments.  Unless otherwise specified, the following
initial members of the Commission shall be appointed by the joint decision of
the Mayor of Nicholasville, the Mayor of Wilmore and the County Judge Executive
of Jessamine County, to wit:
         (a)   Three commissioners representing local hotels or motels, one of
whom shall be appointed in the sole discretion of the Mayor of the City of
Wilmore;
         (b)   One commissioner representing local restaurants;
         (c)   One commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more
names submitted by the Jessamine County Chamber of Commerce;
         (d)   One commissioner shall be appointed in the sole discretion of
the Jessamine County Judge Executive;
         (e)   One commissioner shall be appointed in the sole discretion of
the Mayor of the City of Nicholasville.
      (2)   Subsequent appointments and vacancies. All appointments or re-
appointments made after the date of the initial appointments described in
division (B)(1) shall be made as follows.
         (a)   In the event that no local hotel association exists and/or no
local restaurant association exists at the time, and it shall become necessary
to fill an expired term or other vacancy, all such subsequent appointments or
vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that the original appointment was
made.
         (b)   In the event that a local hotel association exists at the time
and it shall become necessary to fill an expired term or other vacancy, all
such subsequent appointments or vacancies shall be filled as follows.
            1.   Two commissioners shall be jointly appointed from a list of
three or more names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association,
and one commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the local county hotel and motel association, provided that if
only one local hotel and motel association exists that covers both the city and
county, then three commissioners shall be jointly appointed from a list of six
or more names submitted by it.
            2.   A local city or county hotel and motel association shall not
be required to be affiliated with the Kentucky Hotel and Motel Association to
be recognized as the official local city or county hotel and motel association.
         (c)   A local hotel and motel association must be a legal, non-profit
entity formed in the state and recognized by the Kentucky Secretary of State as
active and in good standing. Furthermore, in order to be recognized by this
subchapter as a local hotel and motel association, it must:
            1.   Permit the admission of any and all lodging establishments
within the geographic bounds of the county, whether they are hotels, motels, or
bed and breakfasts;
            2.   Maintain reasonable financial dues that permit participation
in the association by all those who desire to do so;
            3.   Maintain a board of directors of no less than seven members,
which shall be comprised of employees, agents or owners of any major chain
hotel, independent hotel, bed and breakfast or industry partner that currently
operates within the geographic boundaries of the county;
            4.   Must appear before the legislative bodies of the participating
governments at regularly scheduled meetings and submit its bylaws for approval
by those bodies. The bylaws will only be reviewed and approved in the event it
can prove to the legislative bodies that it:
               a.   Has been in existence for no less than two years at the
time it submits its bylaws for review by the legislative bodies of the
participating governments; and
               b.   Has as members more than 50% of all hotels, motels and bed
and breakfasts in existence within the geographic boundaries of the county at
the time it submits its bylaws for review by the legislative bodies of the
participating governments.
         (d)   In the event that a local restaurant association exists at the
time and it shall become necessary to fill an expired term or other vacancy,
all such subsequent appointments or vacancies shall be filled as follows:
            1.   One commissioner shall be jointly appointed from a list of
three or more names submitted by the local restaurant association or
associations.
            2.   A local restaurant association or associations shall not be
required to be affiliated with the Kentucky Restaurant Association to be
recognized as the official local restaurant association or associations.
         (e)   A local restaurant association must be a legal, non-profit
entity formed in the state and recognized by the Kentucky Secretary of State as
active and in good standing. Furthermore, in order to be recognized by this
subchapter as a local restaurant association, it must:
            1.   Permit the admission of any and all restaurant businesses
within the geographic bounds of the county, including major chain restaurants,
independent restaurants, bars and food trucks;
            2.   Maintain reasonable financial dues that permit participation
in the association by all those who desire to do so;
            3.   Maintain a board of directors of no less than seven members,
which shall be comprised of employees, agents or owners of any major chain
restaurants, independent restaurants, bars, food trucks or industry partners
that currently operate within the geographic boundaries of the county;
            4.   Must appear before the legislative bodies of the participating
governments at regularly scheduled meetings and submit its bylaws for approval
by those bodies. The bylaws will only be reviewed and approved in the event
that it can prove to the legislative bodies that it has:
               a.   Been in existence for no less than two years at the time it
submits its bylaws for review by the legislative bodies of the participating
governments; and
               b.   Has as members more than 50% percent of all major chain
restaurants, independent restaurants, bars and food trucks in existence within
the geographic boundaries of the county at the time it submits its bylaws for
review by the legislative bodies of the participating governments.
         (f)   In the event that no chamber of commerce exists when it shall be
necessary to fill an expired term or other vacancy, all such subsequent
appointments or vacancies shall be filled by the joint decision of the city
mayors and the County Judge Executive from persons residing within the
jurisdiction of the Commission and representing local businesses.
         (g)   Vacancies on the Commission of members appointed under the terms
of divisions (B)(1)(d) and (e) shall be filled in the same manner that the
original appointment was made.
         (h)   Any candidate submitted for appointment to the Commission
pursuant to divisions (B)(2)(a), (b) or (c) shall be appointed by the
appropriate chief executive officer or officers within 30 days of the receipt
of the required list or lists.
   (C)   Term.  Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years,
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the appropriate chief
executive officer or officers shall appoint two commissioners for a term of
three years, two commissioners for a term of two years, and three commissioners
for a term of one year. There shall be no limitation on the number of terms to
which a commissioner is reappointed. Upon the expiration of the term of any
member, such member may continue to serve without restriction until replaced.
   (D)   Removal of a commissioner. A commissioner may be removed from office,
by joint or separate action, of the appropriate chief executive officer or
officers of the local governing body or bodies that established the Commission,
as provided by KRS 65.007.
   (E)   Officers and employees. The Commission shall elect from its membership
a chairman and a treasurer, and may employ personnel and make contracts
necessary to carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390. The contracts may
include, but shall not be limited to, the procurement of promotional services,
advertising services, and other services and materials relating to the
promotion of tourist and convention business. Contracts of the type enumerated
shall be made only with persons, organizations, and firms with experience and
qualifications for providing promotional services and materials, such as
advertising firms, chambers of commerce, publishers, and printers.
   (F)   Books and audits. All books of the Commission and its account(s), as
established pursuant to KRS 91A.390(2), shall be audited as provided in the
applicable sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, as amended. An
independent certified public accountant or auditor of public accounts shall
make a report to the Commission, to the associations submitting lists of names
from which Commission members are selected, to the appropriate chief executive
officer or officers, to the State Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the local
governing body or bodies that established the Commission that was audited. A
copy of the audit report shall be made available by the Commission to members
of the public upon request and at no charge.
(Ord. 5-17, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 31.42 SPGE APPLICABILITY; FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   SPGE applicability. The Commission shall comply with all applicable
provisions of KRS 65A.010 through 65A.090 governing special purpose
governmental entities.
   (B) Fiscal year.  The Commission shall operate on the fiscal year beginning
July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of the next following year.
(Ord. 5-17, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 31.43 ANNUAL BUDGET AND TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall annually submit a budget and request for
funds for its operation to the Nicholasville City Commission, the Wilmore City
Council and the Jessamine County Fiscal Court.
         (a)   The annual budget shall be submitted no later than May 1 of each
year.
         (b)   The first line item of each annual budget proposed by the
Commission shall be an expenditure sufficient to cover all expenses anticipated
to be incurred relative to the annual audit.
         (c)   The proposed annual budget shall be acted upon by the City
Commission, City Council and Fiscal Court, either through approval or
amendment, before June 30 of each year.
         (d)   In the event that any proposed annual budget is not acted upon
by the City Commission, City Council and Fiscal Court before June 30, the
Commission budget approved for the preceding year shall be automatically
reinstated, and the Commission may operate under the terms of that budget until
further action of the City Commission, City Council and Fiscal Court.
      (2)   The City Commission, City Council and Fiscal Court shall each
include the Commission in the its annual budget, and shall provide funds for
the operation of the Commission by imposing a 3% transient room tax on the rent
for every occupancy of a suite, room, or rooms, charged by all persons,
companies, corporations, or other like or similar persons, groups, or
organizations doing business as motor courts, motels, hotels, inns, bed and
breakfasts, or like or similar accommodations businesses.
         (a)   The collection and enforcement of the transient room tax from
all persons or entities subject thereto, and who are located within the
incorporated boundaries of the City of Nicholasville, shall be the sole
responsibility of the City of Nicholasville.
         (b)   The collection and enforcement of the transient room tax from
all persons or entities subject thereto, and who are located outside the
incorporated boundaries of the City of Nicholasville and the City of Wilmore,
shall be the sole responsibility of Jessamine County.
         (c)   The collection and enforcement of the transient room tax from
all persons or entities subject thereto, and who are located within the
incorporated boundaries of the City of Wilmore, shall be the sole
responsibility of the City of Wilmore. The due date is the fifteenth of each
month.
      (3)   Transient room taxes shall not apply to the rental or leasing of an
apartment supplied by an individual or business that regularly holds itself out
as exclusively providing apartments. APARTMENT means a room or set of rooms, in
an apartment building, fitted especially with a kitchen, and usually leased as
a dwelling for a minimum period of 30 days or more.
   (B)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section and KRS 91 A.400 shall
be collected on a monthly basis, shall be maintained in an account separate and
unique from all other funds and revenues collected, and shall be considered tax
revenue for the purposes of KRS 68.100 and KRS 92.330.
   (C)   A portion of the money collected from the imposition of this tax, as
determined by the tax levying body, upon the advice and consent of the Tourism
Commission, may be used to finance the cost of acquisition, construction,
operation, and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion
of tourist and convention business, including projects described in KRS 154.30-
050(2)(a). The balance of the money collected from the imposition of this tax
shall be used for the purposes set forth in KRS 91A.350. Proceeds of the tax
shall not be used as a subsidy in any form to any hotel, motel, or restaurant,
except as provided in KRS 154.30-050(2)(a)3.c. Money not expended by the
Commission during any fiscal year shall be used to make up a part of the
Commission's budget for its next fiscal year.
   (D)   The transient room tax collecting and enforcement entity as described
above, or an agent or employee designated in writing by that entity, is
authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any person, firm,
organization or other like or similar accommodation business required herein to
file a return. The examination shall be permitted in order to determine the
accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made, to determine the amount
of room tax due and owing.
   (E)   (1)   All transient room taxes collected by the City of Nicholasville
pursuant to this section shall be paid over to the Commission for deposit into
such account as is described in division (B) above, within 30 days of
collection.
      (2)   All transient room taxes collected by Jessamine County pursuant to
this section shall be paid over to the Commission for deposit into such account
as is described in division (B) above, within 30 days of collection.
      (3)   All transient room taxes collected by the City of Wilmore pursuant
to this section shall be paid over to the Commission for deposit into such
account as is described in division (B) above, on the thirtieth of each month.
      (4)   All transient room taxes collected by the state government, or any
agency thereof, and which are at any time transferred either to the government
of the City of Nicholasville, the City of Wilmore or Jessamine County, shall be
in turn transferred to the Commission by the receiving city or county
government, for deposit into such account as is described in division (B)
above, within 30 days of collection.
   (F)   The Commission, with the approval of the tax levying body, may borrow
money to pay its obligations that cannot be paid at maturity out of current
revenue from the transient room tax, but shall not borrow a sum greater than
can be repaid out of the revenue anticipated from the transient room tax during
the year the money is borrowed. The Commission may pledge its securities for
the repayment of any sum borrowed.
   (G)   The City of Nicholasville and/or the City of Wilmore and/or the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court are authorized and empowered to issue revenue
bonds pursuant to KRS Chapter 58 for public projects. Bonds issued for the
purposes of KRS 91A.350 through 91A.390 may be used to pay any cost for the
acquisition of real estate, the construction of buildings and appurtenances,
the preparation of plans and specifications, and legal and other services
incidental to the project or to the issuance of the bonds. The payment of the
bonds, with interest, may be secured by a pledge of and a first lien on all of
the receipts and revenue derived, or to be derived, from the rental or
operation of the property involved. Bond and interest obligations issued
pursuant to this section shall not constitute an indebtedness of the county,
consolidated local government, or city. All bonds sold under the authority of
this section shall be subject to competitive bidding as provided by law, and
shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed that established for bonds issued
for public projects under KRS Chapter 58.
   (H)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any transient room tax imposed by this section remaining unpaid
after it becomes due shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum of the
amount of the unpaid tax payable and added to the principal amount when paid.
      (2)   If the account remains unpaid 60 days after its due date, the
Tourism Commission may seek criminal charges through the Office of the
Jessamine County Attorney for enforcement of this section.
      (3)   Any owner, manager, corporate officer, director, or agent in charge
of any facility subject to this section is deemed responsible for seeing that
monies are paid to the Tourism Commission. Delinquency of 60 days on the part
of any establisliment charged with collecting and paying this tax shall be
prima facie evidence of willful intent not to pay same.
      (4)   Upon conviction for willful intent not to pay the tax, any person
mentioned in division (H)(3) above shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor as
defined in KRS Chapter 500 et seq., and upon conviction may be fined not more
than $250, or sentenced to imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than
90, or both fine and imprisonment may be levied. Each day’s continued violation
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 5-17, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 11-17, passed 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 32: DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
32.01   Definition
   
32.02   Coordinator; duties
   
32.03   Disaster and emergency services generally
   
32.04   Disaster and Emergency Services Organization
   
32.05   Volunteers
§ 32.01 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, the term DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES means the
preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than
functions for which military forces are primarily responsible for, to prevent,
minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
other natural or human-caused disasters, riot, enemy attack, sabotage,
explosion, power failure, energy shortages, transportation emergencies or other
causes, and the threatened or impending happening of any of the above and in
order to ensure that preparations and response for the city will be adequate to
deal with disasters or emergencies or the threat of same.
(Ord. 238-79, passed 10-8-1979)
§ 32.02 COORDINATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of the Coordinator for the city’s
Disaster and Emergency Services as provided by KRS 30B.010.
   (B)   The City Disaster and Emergency Services Coordinator is hereby
charged:
      (1)   Shall be guided by KRS Chapter 39B;
      (2)   To represent the city on all matters pertaining to disaster and
emergency services;
      (3)   To obtain and utilize cooperation of the city officials in the
preparation and implementation of Disaster and Emergency Services plans; and
      (4)   During periods of emergency to obtain, with consent of the Mayor
and chain-of-command, vital supplies and equipment lacking, needed for the
protection of life and property of people and bind the city for the value
thereof and if required immediately requisition same.
(Ord. 238-79, passed 10-8-1979)
§ 32.03 DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES GENERALLY.
   Officers and employees of the city’s Disaster and Emergency Services with
volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency and all groups,
organizations and persons who make the agreements on operation of law be
charged with duties necessary for the protection of the life and property in
the city during such an emergency shall constitute the Disaster and Emergency
Services Organization.
(Ord. 238-79, passed 10-8-1979)
§ 32.04 DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES ORGANIZATION.
   The functions and duties of the city’s Disaster and Emergency Services shall
be delegated and shared by the elected and appointed chiefs of all local
jurisdictional services with an emergency response capability during a
disaster. Funding for the city’s Disaster and Emergency Services shall be
determined by the Chief Executive and the City Council.
(Ord. 238-79, passed 10-8-1979)
§ 32.05 VOLUNTEERS.
   All persons other than officers and employees of the city volunteering in
service pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall serve with or without
compensation. While engaged in such service, they shall have the same
immunities as persons and employees of the city performing similar duties.
(Ord. 238-79, passed 10-8-1979)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Official orders; acceptance
   
33.02   Auxiliary police
   
33.03   Police Sergeant
   
33.04   Police cruisers; lights
   
33.05   Arrest fees for police officers
   
33.06   Concealed weapons on full-time police officers
   
33.07   Chief of Police; salary
   
33.08   Fingerprinting, security clearance and accident report fees
§ 33.01 OFFICIAL ORDERS; ACCEPTANCE.
   The Official Orders of the Wilmore Police Department, including the policies
and procedures and the general orders, are hereby accepted and given the full
weight of law, to be effective upon publication of this section, and to remain
so unless repealed or revised by subsequent act of this body.
(Ord. 600-08, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 33.02 AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (A)   The term DEPARTMENT means Wilmore Police Department (WPD).
   (B)   This section is to establish an Auxiliary Division of the city’s
Police Department. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for implementing
and maintaining this Division.
   (C)   As of the date this section is enacted, the Auxiliary Division is
authorized for one position. It will be monitored for a one-year probationary
period. At that time, the Auxiliary Division will be authorized for up to three
positions if the Mayor and City Council agree to the continuation.
   (D)   The auxiliary officers will work on a volunteer basis between ten to
12 hours weekly at times that are mutually convenient for both the auxiliary
officers and the Department.
   (E)   The officer will supply all the equipment necessary for the
performance of the duties as a peace officer. The only exception will be the
badge which will be supplied by the WPD. All other expenses that are incurred
will be the responsibility of the applicant/recruit/officer. The only exception
will be the cost of the psychological evaluation and physical examination which
will be paid by the city.
   (F)   If there is any variation of the above expenses, the Chief of Police
must submit the request to the Mayor for his or her approval. A copy of the
variation shall be kept in the officer’s personnel file.
   (G)   The city will cover the insurance liability for this officer or
officers.
   (H)   The applicant must attend and pass the Police Academy at the
Department of Criminal Justice Training (DCOT) or pass the test offered by the
Department of Criminal Justice if the applicant has prior law enforcement
background. The auxiliary officer must also attend and pass the yearly 40 hours
of training offered by DCOT. The city will not reimburse the applicant for
anything while at the Police Academy.
   (I)   The applicant must agree to remain and satisfy the volunteer hours
agreement for one year following the graduation date from the Police Academy.
   (J)   The applicant shall be sworn in, only after successfully completing
the Police Academy training.
   (K)   Members of the Auxiliary Police Division shall have full police powers
while working with or in conjunction with a full-time or part-time officer of
the Department.
   (L)   The auxiliary status will remain in effect for each officer, unless an
emergency situation arises. The Chief of Police can assign an auxiliary officer
to part-time status. This part-time status will remain in effect until the
emergency situation subsides.
   (M)   An EMERGENCY SITUATION is a situation where the Department feels it
necessary to have the officer assigned to work more than 12 hours per week.
This is not intended to create an emergency situation when the hours extend
beyond 12 hours. The part-time status would only be invoked when it is deemed
appropriate by the Chief of Police. An emergency may be a manpower shortage for
any number of reasons. Each such occurrence shall be documented and filed in
the officer’s personnel file.
   (N)   Auxiliary officers are required to be armed when on on-duty status.
When off-duty and in the city, unless engaged in activities such as exercising
or sports involvement, auxiliary officers are required to be armed with a
departmental approved weapon(s).
   (O)   The appointment of each officer shall be made by the Mayor upon the
recommendation of the Chief of Police.
   (P)   Each person must receive a new appointment on a yearly basis following
the same appointment procedure. The appointment date is the date of swearing in
as a police officer.
(Ord. 444-96, passed 7-29-1996)
§ 33.03 POLICE SERGEANT.
   The position of police sergeant shall be created in the Police Department
with the position being according to normal police practices and procedures as
established by the City Council relative to the promotion of police officer.
(Ord. 313-88, passed 3-21-1988)
§ 33.04 POLICE CRUISERS; LIGHTS.
   The police cruisers for the city’s Police Department shall be equipped with
both blue and red flashing lights, as provided in KRS 189.920.
(Ord. 295-87, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 33.05 ARREST FEES FOR POLICE OFFICERS.
   All arrest fees provided by Kentucky Revised Statutes and attributable to
arrests by city police officers are hereby directed to be paid into the city’s
General Fund.
(Ord. 239-79, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 33.06 CONCEALED WEAPONS ON FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   All full-time police officers of the city are hereby allowed and
specifically authorized, in so far as the city is empowered to do, to wear
concealed, deadly weapons on or about their persons, whether on or off duty,
anywhere within the commonwealth.
(Ord. 199, passed 11-6-1974)
§ 33.07 CHIEF OF POLICE; SALARY.
   (A)   The salary of the Chief of Police of the city is as set by City
Council.
   (B)   This salary shall be paid by the Treasurer of the city as follows:
one-half of said salary shall be paid on the fifteenth of each month and the
remaining one-half shall be paid on the last day of each month.
(Ord. 136, passed 5-4-1953)
§ 33.08 FINGERPRINTING, SECURITY CLEARANCE AND ACCIDENT REPORT FEES.
   The following services shall be performed for the fees stated:
   (A)   Fingerprinting: $5;
   (B)   Security clearances: $5; and
   (C)   Accident reports: $3.
(Ord. 379-92, passed 8-17-1992)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Public improvements
   
34.02   Discrimination; grievance procedure
§ 34.01 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The following shall be the duty of all who develop property within the
corporate limits of the city:
      (1)   To properly construct all public improvements, as defined below,
according to the city’s Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Construction, the zoning ordinances and subdivision regulations of the County/
City Joint Planning Commission, to the extent they may apply, and according to
all approved construction plans;
      (2)   To advise the city prior to the start of the construction of said
public improvements so that the city may have the opportunity to inspect same
as the construction occurs, if it so desires;
      (3)   To verity, by way of only approved testing methods, that all of
said public improvements comply, in all respects, with the Standard
Specifications, zoning laws, subdivision regulations and approved construction
plans, as set out above, and to notify the city in advance of the date and time
of said testing, so that it can observe said testing, if it so desires;
      (4)   To provide the city with any and all documentation or other proof
requested for the purpose of demonstrating the actual results of said testing;
      (5)   To, at the successful completion of all required testing, request a
compliance evaluation from the city and the County/City Joint Planning
Commission, relative to these public improvements;
      (6)   To review the detailed and complete “punchlist” that is created as
a result of the compliance evaluation, which shall note any and all
deficiencies in the public improvements relative to the Standard
Specifications, zoning laws, subdivision regulations and approved construction
plans, and to eliminate any such deficiencies;
      (7)   To repair or replace all damaged or defective public improvements,
or any part thereof, and to correct any and all violations of the Standard
Specifications, zoning laws, subdivision regulations and approved construction
plans, as noted in the above referred to “punchlist”, prior to any offer of
dedication of said public improvements to the city;
      (8)   To offer, in writing, the dedication of these public improvements
to the city once the “punchlist” deficiencies are corrected, by delivering same
to the Clerk of the city;
      (9)   To extend unto the city a written guarantee of both the material
and workmanship for all of the public improvements offered for dedication,
dated the date of the acceptance of same by the city and valid for one calendar
year thereafter; and
      (10)   To agree that they will not attempt to obtain a building permit or
certificate of occupancy from the County/City Joint Planning Commission until
such time as all repairs or replacements to public improvements, as set out in
division (A)(6) above, are completed.
   (B)   Failure to abide by this section shall authorize the city to take any
of the following actions:
      (1)   Refuse to grant the offending party further water or sewer taps on
any property;
      (2)   Request the County/City Joint Planning Commission to use any means
available to enforce its zoning laws and subdivision regulations; and
      (3)   Seek relief from the court of proper jurisdiction in regards to the
granting of a temporary restraining order or other injunctive relief or to
enforce the requirements of this section as allowed by law, including seeking
damages, both compensatory and punitive, and to recover it’s attorney fees and
costs associated therewith.
   (C)   Once all of the requirements herein have been met in full, it shall be
the duty of the city to either accept or reject the offer of dedication of
public improvements within 60 days. This shall be done in writing and any
refusal to accept dedication shall be explained therein.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the term PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS shall
include all of the following:
      (1)   Streets;
      (2)   Curbs and gutters;
      (3)   Storm water drains and lines;
      (4)   Sidewalks;
      (5)   Fire hydrants;
      (6)   Waterlines;
      (7)   Meters and boxes;
      (8)   Street lights and utility poles;
      (9)   Sanitary sewer lines;
      (10)   Pump stations;
      (11)   Storm water retention and detention facilities;
      (12)   Water towers; and
      (13)   Any items associated with the above.
(Ord. 517-02, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 34.02 DISCRIMINATION; GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development regulations and § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
being 29 U.S.C. § 794 may personally or by a representative, file a complaint
with the office of the Mayor. A person who has not personally been subjected to
discrimination may also file a complaint.
   (B)   When any person, (citizen, applicant or employee) who believes he or
she has been adversely affected by an act or decision by the City Council and
that such act or decision was based on handicapped status, shall have the right
to process a complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Step One. An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to
the Mayor setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon
which the allegation is based.
      (2)   Step Two. The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15
days after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting
with the objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case
shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days, nor more than 45
days, after receiving the written statement. There shall be prepared a written
documentary of the discussions at the informal meeting, which shall be
preserved in the records of the city.
      (3)   Step Three. Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision
has been made by the Mayor or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City Council by
submitting a written request to the Mayor.
      (4)   Step Four. In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may
designate any person of his or her choice to appear with him or her and
participate in the discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to
participate in the discussion of the grievance when it is brought before the
City Council. The City Council shall issue a written decision on the matter
within 15 days, and the decision shall be the final procedure for the
complainant at the local level. There shall be prepared a written documentary
of the discussion at the hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of
the City Council.
(Ord. 385-92, passed 11-16-1992)
CHAPTER 35: DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
Section
   
35.01   Adopted by reference
§ 35.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s drug-free workplace policy is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1-2010, passed 8-16-2010)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
36.01   Adopted by reference
§ 36.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Code of Ethics is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 423-94, passed 12-5-1994)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
37.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
37.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
37.17   Public records not immediately available
   
37.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
37.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
37.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
37.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
37.22   Format of copies
   
37.23   Fees for copies
   
37.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
37.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
37.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
37.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, the Jessamine County
Schools, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this division; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this division; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this division.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 37.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 37.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 37.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 37.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 37.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the five-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 37.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 37.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
37.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 37.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
37.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one- half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on
white paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American
Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency
maintains electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the
format conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be
provided in this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by
the public agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the
forms described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 37.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
37.25
§ 37.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
37.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
37.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 37.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b) above
shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed
by statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments.
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include but not be limited to information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law; and
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited; and
      (16)   Client case files maintained by the Department of Public Advocacy
or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public Advocacy for
the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
37.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and to copy any record including preliminary
and other supporting documentation that relates to him or her. These records
shall include but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
§ 37.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
   
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
   
51.   WATER
   
52.   SEWERS
   
53.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Water and wastewater rates
   
50.02   Water and sewer service connections
   
50.03   Uniform requirements for water and sewer lines
General Policies and Procedures
   
50.15   Adherence to water and sewer construction specifications
   
50.16   Water and sewer line maintenance
   
50.17   Metering and tap fees
   
50.18   Renewal, Replacement and Extension Fund (R,R&E Fund)
   
50.19   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.20   Deposits, fees and charges
   
50.21   Credits and adjustments
   
50.22   Use of fire hydrants for non-firefighting purposes
   
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 52
   Water, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 WATER AND WASTEWATER RATES.
   The city, through the City Council, its governing body, from time to time
sets rates for the water and wastewater utilities. Copies of rate ordinances
are on file with the city.
(Ord. 417-94, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 569-06, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 659-13,
passed 6-24-2013; Ord. 676-15, passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 677-15, passed 6-15-2015;
Ord. 690-16, passed 6-20-2016; Ord. 1-17, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 3-18, passed
7-2-2018; Ord. 11-19, passed 8-5-2019; Ord. 4-20, passed 7-20-2020; Ord. 2021-
9, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 2022-5, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2023-3, passed 6-19-
2023; Ord. 2024-4, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All water and sewer service connections shall be made at the nearest
water or sewer main adjacent to the property line of the user and the water
meter or sewer connection shall be placed at this point on the property line of
the user.
   (B)   If no water or sewer main is relatively close as determined by the
city, the city shall determine the most effective route and obtain the proper
easements therefor.
   (C)   In the event any existing line in the sewage collection or water
distribution system needs upgrading in order to provide better customer
service, the city, in its discretion, shall determine the best feasible way to
provide better service.
   (D)   In the event the city is requested to provide better service on the
property of the user, the user shall bear the cost of any line, labor and
materials that is used on his or her property. Upon request of the user, the
city shall estimate the above stated costs to be borne by the user before any
improvement is started.
   (E)   The tap fee, as amended, shall be applicable to any new service.
(Ord. 248-81, passed 5-18-1981)
§ 50.03 UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS FOR WATER AND SEWER LINES.
   Any new water line or sewer line construction within the city limits shall
be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Minimum depth of the line shall be 36 inches.
   (B)   Line shall be bedded six inches with #9 chips and the line covered
with #9 chips.
   (C)   All 90-degree angles, 45-degree angles and fire hydrants will have a
two-foot square concrete kicker.
   (D)   All fire hydrants shall have valve between hydrant and main.
   (E)   No large rock to be back-filled.
   (F)   A contractor shall install all laterals, line setters, boxes and lids.
   (G)   A line shall be inspected by the city before backfilled.
   (H)   Complete plans shall be presented to the city for review at least 20
days prior to beginning of construction.
   (I)   Adequate bond shall be posted to cover any construction damage to city
streets and the like.
   (J)   All applications for permits required in the form and manner
prescribed by the city.
   (K)   Unless waived by the city, all plans and specifications submitted for
approval shall be drawn by an engineer, licensed to practice as a professional
engineer.
   (L)   Upon receipt of all plans and specifications, the city shall notify
the applicant in writing within 20 days either that the permit will be issued
or denied, or that certain modifications in the plans or specifications must be
made and a permit will be issued.
(Ord. 267-83, passed 1-16-1984)
GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 50.15 ADHERENCE TO WATER AND SEWER CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All additions, modifications, upgrades and improvements to the city’s
water and sewer systems will be constructed according to the most recent
applicable version of the city’s Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Construction Projects, hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall have the complete discretion to determine the
size of water/sewer line needed in each installation.
      (2)   The decision will be based upon the application of current
engineering criteria which will allow the city to provide adequate water and/or
sewer service to the property.
(Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.16 WATER AND SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE.
   Upon dedication to and acceptance of any water and sewer lines into the
city’s water and wastewater system, the city will accept sole responsibility
for maintenance as follows:
   (A)   All water lines (two inches and larger) and all water mains (six
inches and larger) which are not designed to serve a single user;
   (B)   All fire hydrants. The city is not responsible for and will not
maintain any private fire protection systems;
   (C)   On residential and commercial properties, the city will maintain the
water service laterals to the discharge side of the water meter yoke, excluding
the connection to the yoke on the property owner’s side of the meter;
   (D)   The city will maintain all sewer mains (eight inches and larger) and
appurtenances (force mains, air relief valves, manholes) which are not designed
to serve a single user; and
   (E)   On residential and commercial properties, the city will maintain sewer
service laterals to the private property line.
(Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.17 METERING AND TAP FEES.
   (A)   All connections to the city’s water system must be metered. Water used
for construction purposes, prior to the plumbing of an accessible water source,
must also be metered and paid for. A metering assembly can be borrowed from the
city which will allow a builder to temporarily withdraw metered water from the
water meter vault. The builder will be billed for the cost of the water as
measured by the meter according to the current water usage rate ordinance.
   (B)   All water meters belong to the city and consumers obtain no property
rights in the same by making the service deposit required. All residential
meters are to be installed and removed by employees of the city.
   (C)   Single-family residential buildings must be metered individually. Each
building of multi-family, commercial, educational or industrial property must
be metered independently.
   (D)   All premises within the annexed limits of the city which have
wastewater discharges must connect to the city’s sewer system wherever sewers
are available (Ord. 188) and must abide by the city’s Sewer Use Ordinance (Ord.
481-99, Ch. 52 of this code of ordinances).
   (E)   Tap fees will be assessed for all new water and sewer connections. Any
upgrades to property which is already served by water or sewer will be assessed
a tap fee for the difference between the existing service and the upgraded
service based on the fee structure included herein. No credit will be granted
for any services that are degraded or abandoned.
   (F)   The tap fees shall be assessed upon each individual unit (duplex,
apartment, condo and the like) and to any remodeling or addition requiring a
building permit, which creates one or more new residential or non-residential
units.
   (G)   The tap fee is only for the privilege of tapping into the city water
and/or sewer system. The tap fees do not cover any materials or installation
costs.
   (H)   All additional work must be done by the city or a contractor approved
by the city who will abide by the city’s Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Construction Projects.
   (I)   The applicant shall pay for any water meter and for any labor or
materials which are provided by the city immediately upon presentation of a
bill for same by the city. Water service will not be provided, or will be
discontinued, for non-payment.
   (J)   The water and sewer tap-on fee must be paid prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   (K)   (1)   All materials will be invoiced at the city’s or city’s
subcontractor’s cost, without any markup. Labor and equipment provided by the
city will be invoiced at rates set by the city. These tap fees shall apply to
any tap-ons requested from this date forward and shall continue in full force
and effect until repealed or modified as required by law. In the case of a
residential installation when the primary metered service line could be upsized
to accommodate the additional demand for the fire protection capacity, the
customer is expected to pay the entire cost of the tap fee required for the
domestic service and the tap fee noted above. For example, if a three-fourths-
inch water line and meter service is required for the domestic needs, but
upsizing to a one-half-inch water line and meter service would accommodate the
domestic needs, plus the fire protection needs, then the customer is required
to pay the standard tap fee for a three-fourths-inch water service and the tap
fee noted above for the larger size line. In addition, the customer is required
to pay for the entire expense for the upsized installation, which would include
all the time and materials necessary for the improvement. To qualify for the
tap fee for an upsized water line installation for fire protection, which
utilizes a common water line to the home, the customer must submit an
engineered drawing to the city indicating that the home is being designed with
an interior fire sprinkler system.
      (2)   In addition, the customer must submit to an inspection of the
sprinkler system and plumbing by city personnel prior to turning on the water
service. The intent will be to verify that 100% of the upsized capacity of the
water service is only being utilized by the fire protection system.
   (L)   No charge shall be made for water used in extinguishing accidental
fires or for underwriter’s tests, and water shall not be drawn from a private
fire service connection for any other purpose.
(Ord. 537-04, passed 10-4-2004; Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.18 RENEWAL, REPLACEMENT AND EXTENSION FUND (R,R&E FUND).
   Eighty-five percent of all tap fees (water, sewer and private fire
protection) collected will be designated for renewal, replacement and extension
(R,R&E), a reserved, sinking fund created by Ord. 417-94, dated 9-19-1994.
These funds shall be used solely to provide reserves for renewals,
replacements, improvements, extensions and extraordinary major repairs or debt
reduction of the water and sewer systems of the city. Any expenditure from this
Fund must meet the criteria above and also requires the approval of the
majority of the members of the City Council.
(Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.19 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $25.
(Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.20 DEPOSITS, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be a deposit required of each applicant for water, sewer
and/or solid waste services in the city. This fee shall be $150 per applicant.
These deposits shall be refunded upon termination of service and upon payment
of all just charges for water, sewer and solid waste service to the city. In
the event a just charge remains unpaid at the termination of water, sewer and/
or solid waste service, the city shall deduct said charge from the deposit and
return only the balance, if any. The full current cost of a new solid waste
roll-off cart will be deducted from the deposit if the cart does not remain at
the service address.
   (B)   Deposits are not required for service to property belonging to the
institutions (e.g., Asbury University, Asbury Theological Seminary, Jessamine
County Schools, Wesley Village, Thomson-Hood Veterans Center) as long as the
burden for payment rests completely upon the institution.
   (C)   Any customer of the city’s utilities system who has had continuous,
uninterrupted service for a period of at least five years with no delinquencies
will have the deposit refunded in its entirety. Any customer who moves within
the city service area will not be required to pay a new deposit if their
previous deposit has been refunded.
   (D)   If the city cuts off service to any customer for any reason and if
said customer does not have a service deposit on account with the city, the
customer must pay a deposit to the city prior to restoring service.
   (E)   A fee of $35 will be assessed for checks returned for insufficient
funds (ISF).
   (F)   The reconnection fee for water service disconnected for non-payment or
ISF is $25.
   (G)   Payment in full of the delinquent balance and payment of the
reconnection fee must be received at City Hall during normal business hours (8:
00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday) before water service will be
restored. Water service will not be restored after 4:30 p.m. if the cutoff is
for non-payment or ISF. Under unusual circumstances (e.g., health or medical
necessity), exceptions can be granted by the Utilities Clerk or the Utilities
Director and so reported to the Mayor.
(Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.21 CREDITS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Water leaks and unexplainable high usage. If a leak or unexplainable
high usage occurs, as verified by city water system personnel, and this causes
the water bill to be more than five times greater than a normal bill at a given
meter, the customer will be billed an average water charge and an average sewer
charge (if applicable) for that customer, plus one-half of the excess water
charge and one-half of the excess sewer charge (if applicable). If it can be
verified that the excess usage had no impact on the sanitary sewer system, then
all of the charges for sewer above the average sewer charge for the customer
will be waived. In case of rental property, the charges for the excess water
(and sewer, if applicable) shall be the responsibility of the property owner
when it is clear that the reason for the excess usage is because of a piping or
plumbing deficiency.
   (B)   Water meter accuracy.
      (1)   If there is a dispute concerning the accuracy of a water meter, a
customer can request that the meter be tested for proper calibration. If the
meter is determined to be inaccurate following the test procedure, the city
will be responsible for the full cost of the testing, for the cost and
installation of a new water meter, and the city will make a reasonable
adjustment of the customer’s bill based on the customer’s usage history.
      (2)   If, however, the meter is found to be accurate, the customer will
be responsible for the full cost of the testing procedure, as well as the full
cost of the water bill as disputed.
   (C)   Pools. Residents may request a once a year sewer adjustment for a
month when they fill a swimming pool. Once the resident notifies City Hall, a
city employee will verify the quantity, either by historical adjustments, field
measurements or by actual metering. The sewer charge will be waived for the
amount of water that was used specifically for filling the pool.
   (D)   Lawns. A sewer adjustment will be given for new lawns planted
following new building construction. Residents or property owners may request
an adjustment of the sewer charge on a monthly bill within the first year
following payment of the tap fees, not to exceed three adjustments, for water
used to water new sod or newly planted grass seed. The city will determine how
much water the customer would usually use for the month the adjustment is
requested (based on their applicable seasonal water usage history) and will
waive the sewer charge for the water used in excess of normal usage. If a
Customer has no water usage history with the city, a reasonable adjustment will
be made based on comparable information from customer’s with similar
situations.
   (E)   Other. Any other credits or adjustments can be considered and decided
on a case by case basis by the Utilities Clerk, in consultation with the
Utilities Director, and so reported to the Mayor. Any disagreement with the
decision can be appealed to the City Council.
(Ord. 518-02, passed 2-17-2003; Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.22 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS FOR NON-FIREFIGHTING PURPOSES.
   (A)   Individuals, contractors and businesses may not use fire hydrants for
non-firefighting purposes without the express written consent of the city. If
use of a fire hydrant is necessary for a non-firefighting purpose, a request
can be made to City Hall stating the purpose.
   (B)   If the city deems that the use of a fire hydrant is reasonable, a
water meter suitable for use on a fire hydrant will be signed out by the user,
noting responsible party, equipment borrowed, date, time and beginning meter
reading. The individual or firm will be billed for the cost of the water used
when the meter is returned, according to the current water rate ordinance. The
cost to replace or repair any equipment damaged while in the borrowing party’s
care will be fully borne by the party who signed out the equipment.
(Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person in violation of the provisions of the most recent
version of the city’s Sewer Use Ordinance (
Ch. 52 of this code of ordinances), if convicted, shall be fined not less than
$5 or not more than $25 for each day the violation continues.
      (2)   Any person tapping a water or sewer line belonging to the city
without permission shall be subject to a charge of not less than $50, nor more
than $2,000, to be determined by the City Council in consultation with the
Director of Utilities, plus the estimated cost of water and sewer usage.
(Ord. 663-14, passed 6-16-2014)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Private lines; regulations
   
51.02   Permit required for tapping
   
51.03   Limiting water taps and extensions
Specific Rates and Charges
   
51.15   High Bridge and Southeast County water rates
Fire Hydrants
   
51.30   Adherence to construction specifications and existing ordinances
   
51.31   Fire hydrant specifications
   
51.32   Maintenance assessments
   
51.33   Designation of fees
Water Shortage Response
   
51.45   Purpose
   
51.46   Definitions
   
51.47   Declaration of water shortage advisory
   
51.48   Declaration of water shortage alert
   
51.49   Declaration of water shortage emergency
   
51.50   Declaration of rationing
   
51.51   Objectives of rationing
   
51.52   Water use rationing for residential users
   
51.53   Water use rationing for non-residential water users
   
51.54   Water use rationing for hospitals and health care facilities
   
51.55   Enforcement for water rationing
   
51.56   Shortage water rates
   
51.57   Utilities Director; authority to regulate
   
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PRIVATE LINES; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall have the power to inspect all private lines, meters and
taps made to private water lines outside the city limits, if such private lines
are to be connected in any way to the city’s water system.
   (B)   Said private lines, meters and taps shall meet the standards required
by said city in allowing taps to its municipal system.
   (C)   The city shall retain the right to deny any tap, line or meter on a
private line outside the limits of said city which does not meet the standards
aforesaid.
   (D)   (1)   The city may upon the request of an applicant, furnish the
material and labor necessary to make a tap to said private line.
      (2)   In such event, all expenses for labor and materials shall be borne
by the applicant and shall be in addition to any tap fee required by the owner
of the private line.
(Ord. 236-79, passed 7-23-1979) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TAPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tap any water
main owned by the city without first having secured a permit from the said
city.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-21-1948) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 LIMITING WATER TAPS AND EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city will not install water service to any property, after the
installation of the original water services on the Southeast Water Line
Extension, for any property located along this line, which property lies within
the federal floodplain.
   (B)   There shall be no water taps allowed in the floodplain area of the
High Bridge Water Project other than those that are allowed for existing
residences and businesses which are constructed as of the date of this section.
(Ord. 350-90, passed 5-21-1990; Ord. 436-96, passed 2-12-1996)
SPECIFIC RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15 HIGH BRIDGE AND SOUTHEAST COUNTY WATER RATES.
   The City Council shall from time to time set rates for High Bridge and
Southeast County.
(Ord. 644-12, passed 7-2-2012; Ord. 645-12, passed 7-2-2012; Ord. 5-20, passed
7-20-2020; Ord. 6-20, passed 7-20-2020; Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-21-2021; Ord.
2021-11, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2022-7, passed
6-20-2022; Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-19-2023; Ord. 2023-5, 6-19-2023; Ord. 2024-5,
passed 7-1-2024; Ord. 2024-6, passed 7-1-2024)
FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 51.30 ADHERENCE TO CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All additions, modifications, upgrades and improvements to the city’s
water system will be constructed according to the most recent applicable
version of the city’s Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Construction
Projects, hereby incorporated by reference, and any other city ordinances
related to water services.
   (B)   The improvements must comply with the most recent applicable version
of the city’s ordinance related to the construction, dedication and acceptance
of public improvements in the city (currently Ord. 517-02, § 34.01 of this code
of ordinances). Upon dedication to and acceptance of any distribution system
improvements into the city’s water system, the city will accept responsibility
for maintenance.
   (C)   Any tap-ons for private fire protection must comply with the most
recent applicable version of the city’s ordinance related to tap fees for
private fire protection (currently Ord. 663-14, §§
50.15 through
50.22 of this code of ordinances). The city is not responsible for and will not
maintain any private fire protection systems.
(Ord. 570-06, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 51.31 FIRE HYDRANT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants installed in water service areas outside the city’s
annexed city limits must be constructed according to the hydrant section in the
Standard Specifications (currently § 2240) with the following mandatory
exception: the fire hydrant must have a limited flow capability; it must have a
five and one-fourths-inch main valve opening, it must be the two-way model, and
it must have only two two and one-half-inch hose nozzles (Mueller Super
Centurion 200 Fire Hydrant, Model A-422). It shall not have any pumper nozzles.
   (B)   The water supply must be able to deliver an uninterrupted minimum fire
flow of 250 gallons per minute (GPM) at 20 psi residual for two hours as
determined by hydraulic modeling or representative field verification.
   (C)   No fire hydrants will be permitted on water lines less than six inches
in diameter. All work must be done by a contractor approved by the city.
(Ord. 570-06, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 51.32 MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Every city water customer in service areas outside the city limits
(i.e., they do not pay a city property tax) who are within 1,000 feet of a fire
hydrant, will pay a monthly maintenance assessment for the fire hydrant.
   (B)   This assessment will be $10 per month at the time this subchapter is
adopted. All assessed customers will be charged the same monthly rate.
   (C)   (1)   This rate shall increase in proportion to any increases approved
for the city’s water rates.
      (2)   For example, if the City Council increases the base line water rate
1%, then the maintenance assessment will increase 1%, effective the same time
as the water rates are increased; if a 2% water rate increase, then a 2%
assessment increase and the like.
   (D)   Payment of the maintenance assessment will be required every month
that there is an open water account, regardless of the amount of water usage.
This assessment will be a line item on the customer’s monthly water bill, and
will be subject to all procedures for billing and collections supported by city
ordinance, including termination of water service for non-payment.
   (E)   All property that is developed in the county, which is proposed with
fire hydrants that will connect to the city’s water system, must include the
following language on the final record plat recorded with the Joint Planning
Commission, and also on any deed of restrictions for the development: “All
water customers of the City of Wilmore who live in a service area outside
Wilmore’s city limits, and who live within 1,000 feet of a fire hydrant, must
pay a monthly maintenance assessment fee for the fire hydrant to the City of
Wilmore as per Ordinance 570-06.”
   (F)   These assessments shall apply from this date forward and shall
continue in full force and effect until repealed or modified as required by
law.
   (G)   The maintenance assessment will be eliminated for any customer whose
property is annexed into the city limits.
(Ord. 570-06, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 51.33 DESIGNATION OF FEES.
   (A)   Eighty-five percent of all fees collected (fire hydrant maintenance
assessments and private fire protection tap fees) will be designated for
renewal, replacement and extension (R,R,&E), a reserved, sinking fund created
by Ord. 417-94, dated 9-19-1994. These funds shall be used solely to provide
reserves for renewals, replacements, improvements, extensions and extraordinary
major repairs or debt reduction of the water system of the city. Any
expenditure from this Fund must meet the criteria above and also requires the
approval of the majority of the members of the City Council.
   (B)   The remaining 15% will be designated for water distribution
maintenance in the Utilities Account.
(Ord. 570-06, passed 12-4-2006)
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
§ 51.45 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of
official phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of
voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the
event a shortage is declared.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere with common
law riparian or statutory water rights.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY. Conditions exist which indicate the potential for serious water
supply shortages.
   ALERT. Raw water supplies are consistently below seasonal averages and, if
they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
   ALLOTMENT. The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over any
applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
subchapter.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the city’s water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   EMERGENCY. Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal needs
and that serious shortages exist in the area.
   EXCESS USE. The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this subchapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Commercial, industrial, institutional, public and
all other such users, with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   RATIONING. Procedures established to provide for the equitable distribution
of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies and to assure that sufficient water is available to preserve
public health and safety.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Any customer who receives water service for a single
or multi- family dwelling unit. The term RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER does not include
educational or other institutions, hotels, motels or similar commercial
establishments.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The temporary suspension of water supply, or reduction
of pressure below that required for adequate supply, to any customer, portion
of a water supply or entire system.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WASTEWATER. Water which has been previously used for industrial, municipal,
domestic or other purpose, and has not been returned to the surface or ground
water source.
   WATER SUPPLIES. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its
water rights or withdrawal permit or any treated water introduced by the city
into its water distribution system, including water offered for sale.
   WATER USE CLASSES. Established as follows.
      (1)   ESSENTIAL WATER USES (CLASS 1).
         (a)   Domestic use: water necessary to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation;
         (b)   Health care facilities: patient care and rehabilitation;
         (c)   Public use:
            1.   Firefighting; and
            2.   Health and public protection purposes, if specifically
approved by health officials and the City Council.
         (d)   Water hauling: sales for domestic use where not reasonably
available elsewhere.
      (2)   SOCIALLY OR ECONOMICALLY IMPORTANT WATER USES (CLASS 2).
         (a)   Domestic: personal, in-house water use including kitchen,
bathroom and laundry;
         (b)   Commercial and civic use:
            1.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            2.   Laundromats;
            3.   Restaurants, clubs and eating places; and
            4.   Schools, churches, motels/hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
         (c)   Outdoor non-commercial watering:
            1.   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens; and
            2.   Minimal watering of trees where necessary for their survival.
         (d)   Outdoor commercial or public watering (using conservation
methods and when other sources of water are not available or feasible to use):
            1.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance of livestock;
            2.   Watering by nurseries at a minimum level necessary to maintain
stock;
            3.   Watering by arboretums and public gardens of national, state,
regional or community;
            4.   Significance where necessary to preserve specimens;
            5.   Watering where necessary to establish or maintain revegetation
or landscape plantings required pursuant to law or regulation; and
            6.   Minimal watering of golf course greens.
         (e)   Recreational:
            1.   Operation of municipal pools;
            2.   Operation of pools on the campuses of Asbury College and
Asbury Theological Seminary;
            3.   Operation of residential pools which serve more than 25
dwelling units; and
            4.   Operation of pools used by health care facilities for patient
care and rehabilitation.
         (f)   Air conditioning:
            1.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season;
            2.   Makeup of water during the cooling season; and
            3.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
City Council, where the system has been drained for health protection or repair
purposes.
      (3)   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USES (CLASS 3).
         (a)   Public use:
            1.   Use of fire hydrants (excluding Class 1 and 2 uses), including
use of sprinkler caps, testing fire apparatus and Fire Department drills;
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants, except as needed to ensure
public health and safety as approved by health officials and the City Council.
         (b)   Commercial and civic use:
            1.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating places, except
by customer request;
            2.   Failure to repair a controllable leak; and
            3.   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational ponds and
lakes (such as the tournament ponds at the Sportsman’s League on Handy’s Bend
Road), except as necessary to support fish and wildlife.
         (c)   Ornamental purposes: fountains, reflecting pools and artificial
waterfalls;
         (d)   Outdoor non-commercial watering:
            1.   Use of water for dirt control or compaction;
            2.   Watering of annual or non-woody plants other than vegetable
gardens;
            3.   Watering of lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens),
playing fields and other recreational areas;
            4.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas;
            5.   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
            6.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street; and
            7.   Washing of motor and other vehicles (automobiles, trucks,
boats and trailers and the like).
         (e)   Outdoor commercial or public watering:
            1.   Expanding nursery facilities, placing new irrigated
agricultural land in production, or planting of landscaping, except when
required by a site design review process;
            2.   Use of water for dirt control or compaction;
            3.   Watering of lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens),
playing fields and other recreational areas;
            4.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas;
            5.   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection; and
            6.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street.
         (f)   Recreational: all other uses, except those specified in Class 2;
and
         (g)   Air conditioning: refilling cooling towers after draining.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.47 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council finds that a potential shortage of water
supply is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a
water shortage advisory exists, and that the Utilities Director shall, on a
daily basis, monitor the supply and demands upon that supply.
   (B)   In addition, the Mayor is authorized to call upon all water customers
to employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit non-essential water
use (Class 3) and eliminate the waste of water.
   (C)   This resolution will be published in the local newspaper, and may be
publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate method for
making such resolutions public.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.48 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council finds raw water supplies to be consistently
below seasonal averages and, if they continue to decline and may not be
adequate to meet normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution
that a water shortage alert exists. The city shall continue to encourage
voluntary water conservation measures defined under the advisory declaration,
and further shall impose a ban on all non-essential water uses (Class 3) for
the duration of the shortage until it is declared to have ended by resolution
of the City Council.
   (B)   Declaration of these resolutions shall follow the guidelines described
in §
51.47 of this chapter.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.49 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Council finds that raw water supplies are below the level
necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages exist, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage emergency exists.
Essential uses (Class 1) shall be identified, in specific, as targets for
voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all socially or economically
important uses (Class 2) shall be restricted and non-essential uses (Class 3)
shall be banned. These measures shall be considered ongoing until the emergency
is declared ended by resolution of the City Council. Declaration of these
resolutions shall follow the guidelines described in §
51.47 of this chapter.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.50 DECLARATION OF RATIONING.
   Whenever the City Council finds a need to provide for the equitable
distribution of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand
and limited available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is
available to preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered to
declare by resolution the adoption of mandatory rationing.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.51 OBJECTIVES OF RATIONING.
   (A)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and, at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation, and to provide fire protection service.
   (B)   Should shortages continue, further reductions in usage may be
required. The additional usage reduction in the rationed area must be a valid
and attainable goal reflective of the conditions which currently exist.
   (C)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this
subchapter depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency
area.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.52 WATER USE RATIONING FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   (A)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit (household)
will determine the amount of water that each household will be allowed.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be allotted 40 gallons per day
for each resident of the household. Households with only one permanent resident
will have a daily allotment of 55 gallons.
   (C)   Residential water customers are required to provide city personnel
with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to this rationing
declaration. Where access is not readily available, all reasonable efforts to
contact customers in order to arrange for access to read meters shall be made.
In the event a water customer does not allow entry to read the meter after
reasonable efforts to arrange for such access, the dwelling unit (household)
allotment will be reduced to 55 gallons per day.
   (D)   Where the residential water allotment provided under this section
would create an extraordinary hardship, as in the case of special health-
related requirements, the water customer may submit a written request to the
Utilities Director for an exemption or variance from these requirements. If it
is found that the allotment provided in this section would impose an
extraordinary hardship, a revised allotment for the particular customer may be
established.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such an exemption or
variance rendered by the Utilities Director may file a complaint with the City
Council in accordance with the city’s established grievance procedures.
   (F)   The city will establish a communication system with the customers
through public media to inform them of the requirements of the water rationing
provisions of this subchapter, possible conservation measures that customers
may employ, the system allotment and a regularly scheduled report of whether
the usage was within the allotment.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.53 WATER USE RATIONING FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL WATER USERS.
   (A)   Non-residential customers include commercial, industrial,
institutional, public and all other such users, with the exception of hospitals
and health care facilities.
   (B)   Non-residential water customers shall further reduce their water usage
to 50% of each customer’s average summer use levels, as determined by the
Utilities Clerk utilizing the customer’s historical usage data. If a customer
does not have an entire year’s history of water usage with the city, an
allotment will be assigned at 50% of the average of the months available.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of each non-residential water customer to
meet its mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner possible.
   (D)   Each non-residential water user shall provide access to city personnel
for purposes of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with this
subchapter. All reasonable efforts will be made to contact customers to arrange
for access.
   (E)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be obtained
without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and safety, the
non-residential customer may submit a written request to the Utilities Director
for a variance. For these purposes, EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP means a permanent
damage to property, or economic loss which is substantially more severe than
the sacrifices borne by other water users subject to this subchapter. If the
further reduction would cause an extraordinary hardship or threaten health or
safety, a variance may be granted and a revised water use reduction requirement
for the particular customer may be established.
   (F)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such a variance
rendered by the Utilities Director may file a complaint with the City Council
in accordance with the city’s established grievance procedures.
   (G)   The Utilities Director will provide each non-residential customer with
suggested means to reduce usage levels.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.54 WATER USE RATIONING FOR HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and non-residential water customers as may
be applicable to each individual institution, to the extent compliance will not
endanger the health of the patients or residents of the facility.
   (B)   Each hospital or health care facility shall survey its water usage
patterns and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures
as may be possible without endangering the health of its patients or residents
to achieve a further reduction in the institution’s water usage.
   (C)   The Utilities Director will provide each hospital and health care
facility with suggested means to reduce usage levels.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.55 ENFORCEMENT OF WATER RATIONING.
   (A)   The city’s Utilities Department will have primary responsibility for
monitoring compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern the implementation of service
interruptions.
      (1)   In order to effectuate compliance with this subchapter, the city is
hereby authorized and required to plan and implement service interruptions to
all or part of its water supply system, as may be deemed appropriate, when any
and/or all of the following conditions are determined to exist:
         (a)   The mandated reduction in system-wide usage has not been
achieved;
         (b)   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; and/or
         (c)   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited and/or dwindling water supplies.
      (2)   In the event it is determined that service interruptions are
necessary, the city shall notify its customers that a planned service
interruption is to be imposed. This shall be done through the public media
(newspapers, radio and television) at least one day prior to the interruptions.
Such notice shall:
         (a)   State the day or days when the planned service interruptions
will occur;
         (b)   State the time(s) when such planned service interruptions will
commence, and the time(s) such interruptions will cease;
         (c)   State whether the planned service interruptions are to be
imposed on the entire system or part thereof and, if only part(s) of the system
will experience planned service interruptions, identify geographic boundaries
within which such interruptions will occur; and
         (d)   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned
service interruptions how to treat any water received from the system, for
human consumption, during the period(s) of such interruptions and for such
additional time as may be necessary until full pressure is restored to the
system.
      (3)   If a planned service interruption is imposed as authorized and
required by this subchapter, it must provide for the continued delivery of
water to health care facilities within the area(s) affected by such
interruptions by means of any adequate, alternative delivery measures that may
be necessary.
      (4)   If a planned service interruption is implemented, it must make
provision, by any means possible, for the continued delivery of such water as
may be necessary for the proper operation of sewage collection, treatment and
disposal systems and facilities.
   (C)   Any residential or non-residential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this subchapter will be subject to the
following excess-use charges.
      (1)   Excess-use charges will be collected based on the amount by which a
customer’s use exceeds the water allotments established pursuant to the city’s
water rationing declaration, computed in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
First 2,000 gallons or portion thereof  2 times the rate in effect before
                                        implementing rationing
Each 1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, 4 times the rate in effect before
thereafter                              implementing rationing
 
      (2)   Any moneys collected through excess-use charges shall not be
accounted for as income, but shall be placed in a reserve account that is
dedicated to addressing water shortage problems and water conservation
initiatives.
   (D)   In addition to the excess-use charge, non-compliance with the water
rationing provisions of this subchapter will result in the following:
      (1)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer.
      (2)   For the second or subsequent excess use, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 48 hours, or, if the
customer provides access, a flow restrictor may be installed in the customer’s
service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost incurred to interrupt
or shut off and reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow restrictor,
shall be assessed to the water customer.
   (E)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this subchapter.
   (F)   (1)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing an excess-use charge or other remedy for non-compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter may rebut the finding of a violation, or
provide evidence of circumstances beyond the customer’s control which resulted
in the violation to the City Council.
      (2)   A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be kept,
and a written notice of the city’s final decision and action in such cases
shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.56 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage as provided in §§
51.47 through
51.49 of this chapter, the City Council shall have the power to adopt shortage
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   Such rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block
rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate);
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.57 UTILITIES DIRECTOR; AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
51.47 through
51.49 of this chapter, the Utilities Director is empowered to promulgate such
regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter,
any water supply shortage resolution or water shortage rate ordinance. Such
regulations shall be subject to the approval of the City Council at its next
regular or emergency meeting.
(Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
51.02 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 and not
more than $100.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
51.45 through
51.57 of this chapter, who fails to carry out the duties and responsibilities
imposed by §§
51.45 through
51.57 of this chapter, or who impedes or interferes with any action undertaken
or ordered pursuant to §§
51.45 through
51.57 of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   If the Mayor, Utilities Director or any other city official or
officials charged with implementation and enforcement of §§
51.45 through
51.57 of this chapter or a water supply shortage resolution learns of any
violation of any water use restriction imposed pursuant to §§
51.45 through
51.57 of this chapter, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to
the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer of record
and to any other person known to the city who is responsible for the violation
and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such
specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If
the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water service to the
customer subject to the following procedures.
         (a)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the City Council or a city official designated as a
hearing officer by the City Council.
         (b)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
         (c)   The City Council or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
      (2)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water
service terminated pursuant to division (C)(1) above. In the event of
subsequent violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second
violation and $300 for each additional violation.
      (3)   Any customer may also be charged with violation of §§
51.45 through
51.57 of this chapter and prosecuted in District Court. Any person so charged
and found guilty in District Court of violating the provisions of §§
51.45 through
51.57 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial
violation shall be mandatory fees of $100, which may not be adjusted by the
Court. In addition, such customer may be required by the Court to serve a
definite term of confinement in the county’s Detention Center, which shall be
fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second
violation shall be a mandatory fine of $300, which may not be adjusted by the
Court. In addition, such customer shall serve a definite term of confinement in
the county’s Detention Center, which shall be fixed by the Court and which
shall not exceed 30 days. Penalties for additional violations shall be the same
as the second violation.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-21-1948; Ord. 479-98, passed 11-2-1998)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Purpose
   
52.003   Scope
   
52.004   Administration
   
52.005   Notice of violation
   
52.006   Violations
   
52.007   Fees and charges
   
52.008   Inspections
   
52.009   Vandalism
   
52.010   Amendments
   
52.011   Sewer connections
   
52.012   Wastewater service charges
Wastewater Facilities
   
52.025   Waste disposal
   
52.026   Wastewater discharges
   
52.027   Wastewater disposal
   
52.028   Connection to sewer required
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.040   Exclusions
   
52.041   Private system required
   
52.042   Construction approval
   
52.043   Design requirements
   
52.044   Operating approval
   
52.045   Connection to system when available
   
52.046   Sanitary operation required
   
52.047   Further requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.060   Connection approval
   
52.061   Connection costs
   
52.062   Separate connections required
   
52.063   Existing building sewers
   
52.064   Building sewer elevation
   
52.065   Surface runoff, ground water drains and sump pumps
   
52.066   Conformance to applicable codes
   
52.067   Connection inspection
   
52.068   Excavation guards and property restoration
   
52.069   Protection of capacity for existing users
Use Conditions
   
52.085   Special uses of wastewater sewers
   
52.086   Restricted discharges
   
52.087   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.088   Special agreements
   
52.089   Water and energy conservation
Class III Industrial Discharges
   
52.100   Information requirements
   
52.101   Provision for monitoring
   
52.102   Determination of wastewater characteristics
   
52.103   Costs of damage
Pretreatment
   
52.115   Wastewater with special characteristics
   
52.116   Compliance with pretreatment requirements
   
52.117   Monitoring requirements
   
52.118   Effect of federal law
   
52.119   Revision of pretreatment standards
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Public Property, see
Ch. 151
   Utilities Generally, see
Ch. 50
   Water, see
Ch. 51
Sewers29
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act, as amended.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
during days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The City of Wilmore.
   COMMERCIAL USER (CLASS II). Any property occupied by a non-residential
establishment not within the definition of an “Industrial User (Class III)”,
and which is connected to the wastewater facilities.
   DAY. The 24-hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   GARBAGE. The solid animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the domestic
or commercial handling, storage, dispensing, preparation, cooking and serving
of foods.
   GROUND WATER. Water within the earth.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (CLASS III). Any non-residential user identified in Division
A, B, D, E or I of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual. Class III
also shall include any user that discharges wastewater containing toxic or
poisonous substances, as defined in §§ 307 and 502 of the Clean Water Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1317 and 1362, or any substance(s) causing interference in
the wastewater facilities. CLASS III shall include any non-residential user
who:
      (1)   Is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   Has a non-domestic flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (3)   Contributes more than 5% of the average dry weather capacity of the
wastewater facility; or
      (4)   Is determined by the state regulatory agency or the Utilities
Director to have the potential to adversely affect the wastewater facility.
   INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of any sewer system, wastewater
treatment process, sludge disposal system or their operation, which
substantially contributes to a violation of applicable discharge permits.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissible.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or any
other body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program,
whether administered by the EPA or by the commonwealth.
   OWNER. The person or persons who legally own, lease or occupy private
property with wastewater facilities that discharge, or will discharge, to the
city’s wastewater facilities.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, partnership,
corporation, municipality or other similar organization, agency or group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen in concentration
expressed in grams per liter of solution, as determined by Standard Methods.
   POTW (PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). The city’s wastewater treatment
facility.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater before discharge into the city’s wastewater facilities.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded such that all
particles will be carried freely under flow conditions, normally prevailing in
the wastewater sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   RESIDENTIAL USER (CLASS I). All premises used only for human residency and
that are connected to the wastewater facilities.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. Wastewater discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings, office buildings, industrial plants or institutions.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STANDARD METHODS. The latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association,
Water Pollution Control Federation and American Water Works Association.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM WATER. A sewer for conveying storm, surface and other waters, that are
not intended to be transported to a treatment facility.
   SURFACE WATER. Water that occurs when the rate of precipitation exceeds the
rate at which water may percolate into the soil.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water or wastewater, as determined by 40
C.F.R. part 136.
   TOXICS. Any of the pollutants designated by federal regulations pursuant to
§ 307(a)(1) of the Act.
   UTILITIES DIRECTOR. The manager or superintendent of the city’s wastewater
system or an authorized designee of the city.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industries and institutions, together with
any ground water, surface water or storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITY. The combination of wastewater sewers and treatment
facilities.
   WASTEWATER SEWER. The structures, processes, equipment and arrangements
necessary to collect and transport wastewaters to the treatment facility.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. The structures, processes, equipment and
arrangements necessary to treat and discharge wastewaters.
   WEF. The Water Environment Federation.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the maximum possible
beneficial public use of the city’s wastewater facilities through regulation of
sewer construction, sewer use and wastewater discharges; to provide for
equitable distribution of the costs of the city’s wastewater facilities; and to
provide procedures for complying with the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   The definition of terms used in this chapter are found in §
52.001 of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
discharge of all wastewater to facilities of the city. This chapter provides
for use of the city’s wastewater facilities, regulation of sewer construction,
control of the quantity and quality of wastewater discharged, wastewater
pretreatment, equitable distribution of costs, sewer construction plans,
issuance of wastewater discharge permits, minimum sewer construction standards
and conditions and penalties and other procedures in cases of violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city’s wastewater
sewers or wastewater treatment facilities.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.004 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Utilities Director of the city’s
wastewater systems shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter subject to the authority of the Mayor.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.005 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of this chapter may be served with a
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for compliance. Any such notice given shall be in writing and served
in person or by registered or certified mail. The notice shall be sent to the
last address of the violator known to the Utilities Director. When the address
is unknown, service may be made on the owner of record of the property
involved.
   (B)   If satisfactory action is not taken in the time allotted by the
notice, §
52.006 of this chapter shall be implemented.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.006 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who continues to violate the discharge provisions of this
chapter beyond the time limit, provided in §
52.005 of this chapter, may be charged with commission of a misdemeanor and,
after conviction thereof, shall be fined for each day the violation continues,
or may be subject to disconnection from the city’s wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Each day or portion thereof a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.007 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the city. Such fees and charges shall be set forth herein or
as established in the latest edition of the city’s wastewater service charge
ordinance.
   (B)   All fees, penalties and charges collected under this chapter, and the
wastewater service charge ordinance, shall be used for the sole purpose of
constructing, operating or maintaining the wastewater facilities of the city,
or the retirement of debt incurred for same required pursuant to federal law.
   (C)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter are
due and payable on the receipt of notice of charges. Unpaid charges shall
become delinquent and shall be subject to penalty and interest charges as
outlined in the latest edition of the city’s wastewater service charge
ordinance.
   (D)   Any termination of sewer services that results in water or sewer cut-
off shall not be reconnected until all charges, penalties and a reconnection
fee is paid to the city.
   (E)   The cost and performance of cleaning-out a private sewer line shall be
borne solely by the private entity.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.008 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Utilities Director, or his or her designee, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter properties at any
reasonable time for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement and
sampling of the wastewater discharge to ensure that discharge to the city’s
wastewater facilities is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Utilities Director, or his or her designee, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
property at reasonable times, through which the city holds an easement for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any of the city’s wastewater facilities within the easement. All
entry and any subsequent work on the easement shall be done in full accordance
with the terms of the easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in divisions (A) and (B) above, the Utilities Director or designee shall
observe all safety rules established by the owner or occupant of the property
and applicable to the premises.
   (D)   During the performance on private properties of inspections,
wastewater sampling or other similar operations referred to in divisions (A)
and (B) above, the owner and occupant shall be:
      (1)   Held harmless for personal injury or death of the Utilities
Director or designee and the loss of or damage to city supplies or equipment;
      (2)   Indemnified against loss of or damage to property of the owner or
occupant by the Utilities Director or designee; and
      (3)   Indemnified against liability claims asserted against the owner or
occupant for personal injury or death of the Utilities Director designee or for
loss of or damages to the owner or occupant to maintain safe conditions as
required by §§
52.100 through
52.103 of this chapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.009 VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment that is part of the city’s wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.010 AMENDMENTS.
   Public notice shall be given in accordance with applicable provisions of the
city charter, other city ordinances, or state and federal law before adoption
of any amendments of this chapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.011 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No sewer taps (breaking or entering into existing sewer lines of
the city) shall be made by any person, firm or corporation except the city.
Upon application to the city and after payment of any tapping or connection fee
as required under the current tap fee ordinance, the city will tap the city
sewer and run a lateral to the property line of any applicant where sewers are
available. Any and all installations or attachments thereto shall be made by
the applicant under the directions and supervision of the city.
      (2)   The private sewer line connection to the city sewer must be
visually inspected by city personnel prior to backfilling.
   (B)   Construction costs for running a lateral to a previously unsewered
site, or any upgrade to a previously sewered site, shall be borne entirely by
the applicant at an actual cost basis.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the city to furnish a
sewer connection or sewer services to any premises where a city sewer is not
available at the time that the application is made. Sewer connection charges
shall be as reflected in the current applicable tap fee ordinance.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.012 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater service charge. Charges and fees for the use of the public
wastewater facilities shall be based upon the city’s current wastewater rate
ordinance.
   (B)   Determination of system use.
      (1)   The use of the city’s wastewater facilities shall be based on
actual measurement and analysis of each user’s water usage, in accordance with
provisions of §§
52.101 and
52.102 of this chapter, to the extent such measurement and analysis are
considered by the Utilities Director to be feasible and cost effective.
      (2)   Where measurement and analysis are not considered feasible, each
user’s use of the facilities shall be determined by the quantity of water used,
whether purchased from a public water utility or obtained from a private
source.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
WASTEWATER FACILITIES
§ 52.025 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.026 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   Wastewater discharges to the city’s wastewater facilities are not authorized
unless approved by the Utilities Director in accordance with provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.027 WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.028 CONNECTION TO SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes under the jurisdiction of this chapter
and abutting on any street, alley or rights-of-way in which there is or may be
located a wastewater sewer connected to the treatment facility of the city, is
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect such facilities directly to the proper sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so provided the proper wastewater sewer is within 100 feet of the property
line.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person served by a privately
constructed, owned, operated or maintained wastewater sewer and wastewater
treatment facility that discharges directly to a natural outlet in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.040 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any private system that discharges to
wastewater facilities of the city or that discharges directly to a natural
outlet by authority of a separate NPDES permit and in compliance with
applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.041 PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All houses, buildings or properties that are required by other authority to
have sanitary or industrial wastewater facilities are subject to the
jurisdiction of this chapter and are located where a proper wastewater sewer is
not available as specified by the provisions of §
52.028 of this chapter, shall be equipped at the owner’s expense with suitable
wastewater facilities connected to a private wastewater disposal system, which
complies with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.042 CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL.
   Before beginning construction of a private wastewater disposal system
required under §
52.041 of this chapter, the owner shall first obtain written permission signed
by the Utilities Director. The applicant shall provide any plans,
specifications and other information relevant to wastewater discharges as are
deemed necessary by the Utilities Director.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.043 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of the Department of Public Health of
the commonwealth or applicable federal law. No construction shall be allowed
for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil disposal
facilities where the area of the lot is less than 200 square feet. Septic tank
or cesspool discharges require the use of subsurface disposal. This requirement
excludes deep well disposal as defined by state and federal laws.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.044 OPERATING APPROVAL.
   (A)   Before beginning of operation of a private wastewater disposal system,
the owner shall first obtain a written approval signed by the Utilities
Director.
   (B)   The approval shall not become given until the installation is
completed to the satisfaction of the Utilities Director.
   (C)   The Utilities Director shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant shall notify the
Utilities Director when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (D)   The inspection shall be made within 40 normal business hours after
receipt of notice by the Utilities Director.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.045 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM WHEN AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a wastewater sewer becomes available, as defined in §
52.028 of this chapter, to a property served by a private wastewater disposal
system, a direct connection shall be made to the wastewater sewer within 90
days, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar wastewater disposal
facilities shall be emptied as prescribed by local regulations and filled with
suitable material.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.046 SANITARY OPERATION REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
Such facilities shall be subject to inspection by the Utilities Director at
reasonable times.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.047 FURTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the county’s Health
Officer or other applicable authority.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.060 CONNECTION APPROVAL.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any wastewater sewer or storm sewer without
first obtaining written approval from the Utilities Director.
   (B)   There shall be three classes for connections to the city’s wastewater
facilities: Class I - residential, Class II - commercial and Class III -
industrial. In all cases, the owner shall request to connect to the city’s
wastewater facilities. The applicant shall submit the wastewater information
required to administer this chapter. An administrative and inspection fee shall
be paid to the city at the time the request is made as per the effective
wastewater fee ordinance.
   (C)   Connections to a storm sewer shall be subject to an administrative and
inspection fee. Such connections shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter and the approval of the Utilities Director.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.061 CONNECTION COSTS.
   The costs and expenses incidental to the building sewer installation and
connection to the city’s wastewater facilities shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that directly or
indirectly may result from the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.062 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except when one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway. In such cases, the
building sewer serving the front building may be extended to the rear building
and the whole considered as one building sewer. The city assumes no obligation
or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single building
sewer that serves two buildings.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.063 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Existing building sewers may be used for connection of new buildings only
when they are founded, after examination and test by the Utilities Director, to
meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.064 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION.
   Whenever practical, the building sewer shall be brought to a building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In buildings in which any building drain is
too low to permit gravity flow to the city’s wastewater sewer, wastewater
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to a building sewer draining to the city sewer.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.065 SURFACE RUNOFF, GROUND WATER DRAINS AND SUMP PUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall connect roof, foundation, areaway, parking lot,
roadway or other surface runoff or ground water drains, or sump pumps to drains
for non-wastewater, to any sewer that is connected to a wastewater treatment
facility.
   (B)   Roof, foundation, areaway, parking lot, roadway or other surface
runoff or ground water drains, and sump pumps to drains for non-wastewater
shall discharge to natural outlets or storm sewers.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.066 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE CODES.
   (A)   The connection of a building sewer into a wastewater sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, the city’s
Standard Specifications for construction of water and sewer improvements or
other applicable requirements of the city or to the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM or the WEF. The connections shall be
made gas-tight and water- tight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved in writing by the
Utilities Director before installation.
   (B)   The connection of a surface runoff or ground water drain to a storm
sewer or natural outlet designed to transport surface runoff or ground water
drainage shall conform to the requirements of the applicable Building Code or
other applicable requirements of the city.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.067 CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   The applicant for a building sewer shall notify the Utilities Director when
such sewer connection is ready for inspection before its connection to the
city’s facilities. Such connection and testing, as deemed necessary by the
Utilities Director, shall be made under the supervision of the Utilities
Director.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.068 EXCAVATION GUARDS AND PROPERTY RESTORATION.
   Excavation for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks,
parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.069 PROTECTION OF CAPACITY FOR EXISTING USERS.
   The Utilities Director shall not issue approval for any class of connection
to the city’s wastewater sewers or wastewater treatment facilities unless there
is sufficient capacity not legally committed to other users in the wastewater
sewers and treatment facilities to convey and adequately treat the quantity of
wastewater that the requested connection will add to the system. The Utilities
Director may permit such a connection if there are legally binding commitments
to provide the needed capacity.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
USE CONDITIONS
§ 52.085 SPECIAL USES OF WASTEWATER SEWERS.
   All uncontaminated discharges of storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage or other waters not required to be treated in
the treatment facility shall be made to storm sewers or natural outlets
designed for such discharges. Any connection, drain or arrangement that will
permit such waters to enter any other wastewater sewer shall be deemed to be in
violation of this section and this chapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.086 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any of the
city’s wastewater facilities any substances, materials, waters or wastes in
quantities or concentrations that will:
      (1)   Create a fire or explosion hazard including, but not limited to,
gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid,
solid or gas;
      (2)   Cause corrosive damage or hazard to structures, equipment or
personnel of the wastewater facilities and in no case will discharges be
allowed with a pH lower than six or greater than ten;
      (3)   Cause obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with
the operation of wastewater facilities due to accumulation of solid or viscous
materials;
      (4)   Constitute a rate of discharge or substantial deviation from normal
rates of discharge (“slug discharge”) sufficient to cause interference in the
operation and performance of the wastewater facilities;
      (5)   Contain heat in amounts that will accelerate the biodegradation of
wastes, causing excessive amounts of hydrogen sulfide to form in the wastewater
sewer, or inhibit biological activity in the wastewater treatment facilities,
and in no case shall the discharge of heat cause the temperature in the city
wastewater sewer to exceed 58°C (150°F) or the temperature of the influent to
the treatment facilities to exceed 40°C (104°F);
      (6)   Contain more than 100 milligrams per liter of non-biodegradable
oils of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (7)   Contain floatable oils, fat or grease;
      (8)   Contain noxious, malodorous gas or substance in quantities that
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life;
      (9)   Contain radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as defined by
applicable state and federal guidelines;
      (10)   Contain any garbage that has not been properly shredded to a size
or shape that causes no operational problems; and
      (11)   Contain any odor or color-producing substances exceeding
concentration limits that may be established by the Utilities Director and the
city’s NPDES permit.
   (B)   If in establishing discharge restrictions, discharge limits or
pretreatment standards pursuant to this article, the Utilities Director
establishes concentration limits to be met by an industrial user, the Utilities
Director in lieu of concentration limits may establish mass limits of
comparable stringency for an individual industrial user at the request of such
user.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.087 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any
wastewater facilities, wastewaters containing substances in excess of the
quantity prescribed by the applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard
promulgated by EPA, except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (2)   Compliance with such applicable pretreatment standards shall be
made within three years of the date the standard is promulgated for existing
systems; however, compliance with a categorical pretreatment standard for new
sources shall be required upon connection to the POTW.
   (B)   Upon application by a Class III user, the Utilities Director shall
revise any limitation on substances specified in the applicable pretreatment
standards to reflect removal of the substances by the wastewater treatment
facility. The revised discharge limit for specified substances shall be derived
in accordance with federal law.
   (C)   (1)   Upon application by a Class III user, the Utilities Director
shall adjust any limitation on substances specified in the applicable
pretreatment standards to consider factors relating to such users that are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA during the
development of the pretreatment standard.
      (2)   Requests for and determinations of fundamentally different
adjustments shall be in accordance with federal law.
   (D)   The Utilities Director shall notify any Class III user affected by the
provisions of this section and establish an enforceable compliance schedule for
each.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.088 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the city and any user of the wastewater
facilities, whereby wastewater of unusual strength or character is accepted
into the system and specially treated subject to any applicable payments or
user charges.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.089 WATER AND ENERGY CONSERVATION.
   The conservation of water and energy shall be encouraged by the Utilities
Director. In establishing discharge restrictions for industrial users, the
Utilities Director shall consider already implemented or planned conservation
steps revealed by the Class III user. At the Utilities Director’s request, each
industrial user will provide pertinent information showing that the quantities
of substances or pollutants have not been, nor will be, increased as a result
of the conservation steps. After such a showing is deemed satisfactory, the
Utilities Director shall adjust the discharge restrictions, which have been
asked on concentrations, to reflect the conservations steps.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
CLASS III INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES
§ 52.100 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All Class III dischargers shall file with the city all wastewater
information deemed necessary by the Utilities Director for determination of
compliance with this chapter, the city’s NPDES permit conditions and state and
federal law. Such information shall be provided by completion of a
questionnaire designed and supplied by the Utilities Director and by
supplements thereto as necessary. Information requested in the questionnaire
and designated by the discharger as confidential is subject to the conditions
of confidentiality as set forth in division (C) below.
   (B)   A person who owns, operates or occupies properties designated as a
Class III discharger at more than one location shall submit separate
information for each location as may be required by the Utilities Director.
   (C)   The Utilities Director shall implement measures to ensure the
confidentiality of information by a Class III discharger pursuant to this
chapter. In no event shall the Utilities Director delegate this responsibility
or disclose any claimed confidential information to any person without prior
written notice to the owner and without providing the owner the opportunity to
protect such confidential information, including the right to seek judicial
relief.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.101 PROVISION FOR MONITORING.
   (A)   When required by the Utilities Director, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying Class III wastewater discharges shall
provide suitable access and necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurements of the
wastewater. Such access shall be in a readily and safely accessible location
and shall be provided in accordance with plans approved by the Utilities
Director. The access shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense to
be safe and accessible at reasonable times.
   (B)   The Utilities Director shall consider such factors as the volume and
strength of discharge, rate of discharge, quantities of toxic materials in the
discharge, wastewater treatment facility removal capabilities and cost
effectiveness in determining whether access and equipment for monitoring Class
III wastewater discharges shall be required.
   (C)   When the Utilities Director determines access and equipment for
monitoring or measuring Class III wastewater discharges are not practicable,
reliable or cost effective, the Utilities Director may specify alternative
methods of determining the characteristics of the wastewater’s discharge that
will, in the Utilities Director’s judgment, provide an equitable measurement.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.102 DETERMINATION OF WASTEWATER CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   (1)   Measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
wastewater to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 methods approved by the Utilities Director
and shall comply with state and federal law. Sampling locations, times,
durations and frequencies shall be determined on an individual basis subject to
approval by the Utilities Director.
      (2)   The discharger shall have the option to use, at his or her own
expense, more complete approved sampling methods, locations, times, durations
and frequencies than specified by the Utilities Director.
      (3)   Any additional results beyond those required are also to be
reported to the control authority.
   (B)   Measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of wastewater
required by this chapter shall be performed by a qualified laboratory approved
by the Utilities Director. When such analyses are required of a discharger, the
discharger may, in lieu of using the city’s laboratory, make arrangement with
any qualified laboratory, including that of the discharger, to perform such
analyses.
   (C)   Monitoring of wastewater characteristics necessary for determining
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards shall be conducted on the
basis of the schedule below, unless more frequent monitoring is required by
authority other than this chapter, or if the Utilities Director determines that
the characteristics of the specific discharge warrant more frequent monitoring.
 
Average Actual Discharge Monitoring Frequency
Less than 100,000 gpd    Semi-annually
100,000 - 250,000 gpd    Quarterly
> 250,000 gpd            Monthly
 
   (D)   Monitoring of wastewater characteristics for any purpose other than
determining compliance with pretreatment standards shall be conducted on a
frequency deemed necessary by the Utilities Director.
   (E)   (1)   Upon demonstration by any person that the characteristics of the
wastewater discharged by that person are consistent, the Utilities Director may
reduce the monitoring frequency as may be required by authority other than this
chapter.
      (2)   In no case shall the frequency of monitoring be less than semi-
annual for determining compliance with pretreatment standards.
   (F)   (1)   In determining the discharge characteristics, factors such as
continuous, batch or seasonal operation, as well as the information
requirements of other provisions in this chapter, shall be considered by the
Utilities Director.
      (2)   The Utilities Director may obtain wastewater samples as required to
verify the consistency of discharge characteristics.
   (G)   (1)   Fees for any given measurement, test or analysis of wastewater
required by this chapter and performed by the city shall be the same for all
classes of dischargers, regardless of the quantity or quality of the discharge,
and shall reflect only direct cost.
      (2)   Costs of analyses performed by an independent laboratory at the
option of the discharger shall be borne directly by the discharger.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.103 COSTS OF DAMAGE.
   (A)   If the drainage or discharge from any establishment causes a deposit,
obstruction or damage to any of the city’s wastewater facilities, the Utilities
Director shall cause the deposit or obstruction to be promptly removed or cause
the damage to be promptly repaired.
   (B)   The cost for such work, including materials, labor and supervision,
shall be borne by the person causing such deposit, obstruction or damage.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
PRETREATMENT
§ 52.115 WASTEWATER WITH SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   The Utilities Director should initially rely on the federal
categorical pretreatment standards of §
52.087 of this chapter to protect wastewater facilities or receiving waters;
however, if any wastewater that contains substances or characteristics shown to
have deleterious effect on the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or that constitutes a public nuisance or hazard is discharged
or proposed for discharge to the wastewater sewers, the Utilities Director may:
      (1)   Require pretreatment to a condition acceptable for discharge to the
wastewater sewers;
      (2)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharges;
      (3)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastewaters not covered by existing fees and charges;
      (4)   Require the development of compliance schedules to meet any
applicable treatment requirements;
      (5)   Require the submission of reports necessary to ensure compliance
with applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (6)   Carry out all inspection, surveillance and monitoring necessary to
determine compliance with applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (7)   Obtain remedies for non-compliance by any user. Such remedies may
include injunctive relief, the civil penalties specified in §
52.006 of this chapter, or appropriate criminal penalties; or
      (8)   Reject the wastewater if scientific evidence indicates the
discharge will create unreasonable hazards or have unreasonable deleterious
effects on the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Utilities Director shall
ensure that conditions of the city’s NPDES permit are met. The Utilities
Director also shall consider the cost effectiveness and the economic impact of
the alternatives on the discharger. If the Utilities Director allows the
pretreatment or equalization of wastewater flows, the installation of necessary
facilities shall be subject to review. The Utilities Director shall review and
recommend any appropriate changes to the program, within 60 days of submittal.
   (C)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any wastewater, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.116 COMPLIANCE WITH PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Persons required to pretreat wastewater in accordance with §
52.115 of this chapter shall provide a statement to be reviewed by an
authorized representative of the user and certified by a qualified person. Such
statement shall indicate whether applicable pretreatment requirements are being
met on a consistent basis and if not, describe the additional operation and
maintenance or additional pretreatment needed for the user to meet the
pretreatment requirements. If additional pretreatment or O&M will be required
to meet the pretreatment requirements, the user shall submit a plan, including
schedules, to the Utilities Director. The plan, including schedules, shall be
consistent with applicable conditions of the city’s NPDES permit or other
local, state or federal laws.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.117 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   Discharges of wastewater to the city’s wastewater facilities from the
facilities of any user shall be monitored in accordance with the provisions of
§§
52.101 and
52.102 of this chapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.118 EFFECT OF FEDERAL LAW.
   If the federal government promulgates a regulation for a given new or
existing user in a specific industrial subcategory that establishes
pretreatment standards or establishes that such a user is exempt from
pretreatment standards, such federal regulations shall immediately supersede §
51.115(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 52.119 REVISION OF PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The Utilities Director shall promptly apply for and obtain authorization
from the EPA to revise discharge limitations for those substances listed in the
federal categorical pretreatment standards for which consistent removal occurs
in the wastewater treatment facilities of the city. The Utilities Director
shall not adopt or enforce discharge limitations more stringent than the
requested limitations until the state or EPA acts on the application.
(Ord. 481-99, passed 2-15-1999)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Collection rates
   
53.02   Solid waste revenues for satisfaction of debt
Storage, Collection, Transportation and Disposal
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Solid waste storage
   
53.17   Collection of solid waste
   
53.18   Disposal of solid waste
   
53.19   Franchise
   
53.20   Rules and regulations generally
   
53.21   Prohibited practices
   
53.22   Service charges and billing
   
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 COLLECTION RATES.
   The city shall from time to time set the rates for garbage collection.
Copies of rate ordinances are available from the city.
(Ord. 662-14, passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 2022-4, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 53.02 SOLID WASTE REVENUES FOR SATISFACTION OF DEBT.
   (A)   The net proceeds from the operation of the city’s solid waste
collection operation shall be utilized for the sole and express purpose of
retiring the debt, both principal and interest, which has been incurred by the
city in the funding of those items set out herein.
   (B)   This exclusive use of the net profits from the operation of the solid
waste collection shall remain in effect until the outstanding indebtedness,
both principal and interest, is satisfied in whole, after which time the net
profits shall revert to the city’s General Fund.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, NET PROFITS shall be that amount of
profit derived from the solid waste collection business on a periodic basis
after the deduction of all ordinary and necessary expenses, including onset
operation, including, but not limited to, equipment, costs of repairs and
operations, manpower, insurance and related expenses.
(Ord. 359-90, passed 1-7-1991)
STORAGE, COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and/or
non-combustible waste materials from dwelling units, commercial, industrial,
institutional or agricultural establishments which are either too large or too
heavy to be safely and conveniently loaded in solid waste collection vehicles
by solid waste collectors, with the equipment available. This includes, but is
not limited to, household appliances such as stoves, refrigerators, water
heaters, furniture and the like.
   COLLECTION. Removal and transportation of solid waste from its place of
storage to its place of processing or disposal.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Materials such as lumber, bricks, dirt,
stone, plaster, roofing, sheathing, rubble, conduit pipe, wire insulation and
other similar items resulting from repairs, additions, destruction or
construction of buildings.
   DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Disposable plastic sacks with a capacity
of ten to 35 gallons specifically designed for storage of solid waste.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure, and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or are intended
to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Wastes that pose a potential hazard to humans or other living
organisms for one or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   Such wastes are non-degradable or persistent in nature;
         (b)   Their effects can be magnified by organisms in the environment;
         (c)   They can be lethal; or
         (d)   They may cause detrimental cumulative effects.
      (2)   General categories of hazardous wastes include toxic chemicals and
flammable, radioactive or biological substances. These wastes can be in the
form of sludge, liquid, gas and solid.
   MULTIPLE HOUSING FACILITY. A housing facility containing more than one
dwelling unit under one roof.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
be in actual possession of any dwelling unit or of any other improved real
property, either as owner or as a tenant.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political
subdivision or organization of any kind, or their legal representative, agent
or assignees.
   REFUSE. Solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE. Unwanted or discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-solid
state, including, but not limited to, garbage, ashes, street refuse, rubbish,
dead animals, animal and agricultural wastes, yard wastes, discarded
appliances, special wastes, industrial wastes and demolition and construction
wastes.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the operation of
any commercial, industrial, institutional or agricultural establishment.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the maintenance
and operation of dwelling units.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Receptacle used by any person to store solid waste
during the interval between solid waste collections.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. The process of discarding or getting rid of unwanted
material. In particular, the final deposition of solid waste by humans.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The entire solid waste system of storage,
collection, transportation and disposal.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Waste that does not fall into the categories of hazardous or
non-hazardous waste.
   STORAGE. Keeping, maintaining or storing solid waste from the time of its
production until the time of its collection.
   YARD WASTES. Grass clippings, leaves, tree trimmings and the like.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 53.16 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and every institutional,
commercial or business, industrial or agricultural establishment producing
solid waste within the city shall utilize sufficient and adequate containers
for the storage of all solid waste. Exceptions will be made for bulky rubbish
and demolition and construction waste to serve each such dwelling unit and/or
establishment. The city will provide and maintain rollout carts that are
suitable for containment.
      (2)   All medical waste must be packaged and stored in containers that
will guarantee that there can be no possible contact between the waste material
and solid waste collection personnel.
   (B)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial, industrial, agricultural or business establishment shall place all
solid waste to be collected in proper solid waste containers, except as
otherwise provided herein. Such solid waste containers shall be maintained, and
the area surrounding them, in a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all
times.
   (C)   Residential solid waste shall be stored in containers provided by the
city. Containers shall be of a type originally manufactured for residential
solid waste, with tapered sides for easy emptying. They shall be of lightweight
and sturdy construction. The weight of any individual container and contents
shall not exceed 100 pounds.
   D)   (1)   Commercial, business or institutional solid waste shall be stored
in solid waste containers (i.e., “dumpsters”) provided by the city. These
containers will meet the specifications required by the equipment used by the
city for the collection of solid waste, and the container will be sized to
accommodate the solid waste generated by the entity. The city will solely
determine the size of the container and the frequency of collection. The
container(s) will be sized to hold the total volume of the solid waste
completely within the container for the entire duration between collection
cycles. The city will routinely evaluate the usage patterns of each container
and will decrease or increase the container size accordingly. The city’s intent
will be to size each container for each customer so that it will be full or
nearly full prior to each collection.
      (2)   This solid waste container will remain the property of the city.
Only containers supplied by the city will be acceptable. Bulky rubbish and
construction and demolition waste shall not be deposited in city-owned
containers. Litter and debris shall not be allowed to accumulate around the
dumpster and all waste shall be deposited in such a manner as to prevent
spilling or blowing out of the container.
   (E)   Brush and tree limbs less than four inches in diameter and less than
eight feet in length shall be stacked at the curb parallel to the street or
public thoroughfare when not placed in storage containers.
   (F)   Yard wastes shall be stored in containers so constructed and
maintained as to prevent the dispersal of wastes placed therein upon the
premises served, upon adjacent premises or upon adjacent public rights-of-way.
The weight of any individual container and contents shall not exceed 75 pounds.
   (G)   The contents of a solid waste container that is not approved will not
be collected.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall provide for the collection of solid waste in the
city in a manner deemed to be in the best interests of the city. The occupant
of every dwelling unit, and every commercial or business institution,
industrial or agricultural establishment and private institution within the
city shall be a solid waste collection customer of the city. The Jessamine
County Schools facilities located within the city are exempt from all
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Dumpsters are required at the following locations. Any exceptions
must be duly noted and approved by the Public Works Director:
         (a)   Multi-unit dwellings of seven units or more (e.g., apartments,
townhouses, condominiums and the like);
         (b)   All “mixed-use” (e.g., downstairs retail and upstairs dwelling),
office, commercial, industrial or institutional properties that generate two
cubic yards or more of solid waste per week as determined by historical usage
patterns at any one collection location; and
         (c)   All properties with a single master water meter that provides
water to multiple businesses and/or residential units if curbside pickup is
impractical.
   (B)   All solid waste from premises to which collection services are
provided by the city shall be collected, except hazardous waste, bulky rubbish
or demolition and construction waste, as defined herein. All solid waste
collected shall, upon being loaded into collection equipment, become the
property of the city.
   (C)   Tree limbs and yard wastes, as described in §
53.16(E) and (F) of this chapter, respectively, shall be placed adjacent to,
and parallel to, the roadside or public thoroughfare for collection. Solid
waste containers as required by this chapter for the storage of other
residential solid waste shall be placed at the roadside for collection. Any
solid waste containers, tree limbs, yard wastes or other solid waste permitted
by this chapter to be placed at the roadside for collection shall not be so
placed earlier than 24 hours prior to the regularly scheduled collection day.
The containers shall be removed within 24 hours after collection.
   (D)   Bulky rubbish and construction and demolition waste shall be collected
upon request to the city. The city shall establish the procedure and fee for
collecting these solid wastes.
   (E)   Solid waste collectors employed by the city are hereby authorized to
enter upon private property for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom
as required by this chapter. Solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling
units or other residential buildings for the purpose of collecting residential
solid waste. Commercial solid waste may be removed from within commercial
establishments upon authorization of the owner, or his, her or their
representative, and approval by a city’s Public Works Department Supervisor.
   (F)   All residential solid waste within the city, other than bulky rubbish
and construction and demolition waste, shall be collected at least weekly. All
commercial solid waste shall be collected at least once weekly with additional
collections if necessary for the preservation of the health and safety of the
public.
   (G)   The city’s service charge for residential collection presumes a
“normal” amount of garbage will be collected from each customer as indicated by
his, her or their “normal” usage history (typically, no more than eight to ten
kitchen size [13 gallon] garbage bags per week). Any excessive disposal (e.g.,
after a yard sale; while moving; a grand spring cleaning) will be collected and
then billed according to the bulk disposal rate in the current rate ordinance.
   (H)   (1)   Residential solid waste containers shall be stored upon the
residential premises; however, all collection of residential solid waste shall
be at the roadside adjacent to the public street or thoroughfare. If the
occupant(s) of the residence is physically incapable of transporting the
container(s) to the curbside, a request for collection adjacent to the dwelling
can be made by contacting the Utilities Clerk; authorization can be granted
with approval from the Mayor or Public Works Director. There will be no charge
for off-curb collection for those who meet the above criteria.
      (2)   Commercial solid waste containers shall be stored upon private
property, unless the owner has been granted written permission from the
appropriate agency to use public property for such purposes. The storage site
shall be on a hard surface (e.g., concrete, asphalt) no less than eight feet
square, well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, Public Works
and public health personnel and Fire Department personnel. The customer is
responsible to make certain that dumpsters are not obstructed at any time by
any impediment (e.g., parked cars, plowed snow, large disposal items and the
like).
   (I)   All collection vehicles shall be maintained and operated as to prevent
spillage of solid waste therefrom.
   (J)   Under no circumstances will the city collect hazardous waste. Special
waste will only be handled as per the applicable Kentucky Revised Statutes
promulgated by the Division of Waste Management.
   (K)   Recycling containers must be provided by the customer and they must be
hard-sided. No plastic bags will be accepted for storage or disposal. The city
will collect materials deemed recyclable (as determined by the county’s
Recycling Center) every other week from the curbside of its residential
customers. Aside from cardboard, the materials do not need to be separated.
Cardboard, however, must be flattened, bundled and stacked separately beside
the other recycling containers provided by the customer. For ease of
identification, the city will provide an adhesive emblem to customers to adhere
to all containers intended for storage and collection of recycling materials.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.18 DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   Solid wastes shall be disposed of at a processing facility or disposal area
operated under the approval of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 53.19 FRANCHISE.
   The city has the exclusive authority to engage in the business of collecting
and transporting solid waste generated within the boundaries of the city. No
person, corporation or a combination thereof shall be permitted to engage in
the collection or transportation of solid waste generated within the annexed
limits of the city, except those engaged in providing service to facilities of
the Jessamine County Schools , or those who have specific authorization from
the city (e.g., “rolloff” vendors, “compactor” vendors).
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 53.20 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The city shall make, amend, revoke and enforce reasonable and necessary
rules and regulations governing, but not limited to:
   (A)   Preparation, drainage and wrapping of garbage deposited in solid waste
containers;
   (B)   Specifications for solid waste containers, including the type,
composition, equipment, size and shape;
   (C)   Identification of solid waste containers and of the covers thereof,
and of equipment thereto appertaining, if any;
   (D)   Weight limitations on the combined weight of solid waste containers
and the contents thereof, and weight and size limitations on bundles of solid
waste too large for solid waste containers;
   (E)   Storage of solid waste in solid waste containers;
   (F)   Sanitation, maintenance and replacement of solid waste containers;
   (G)   Collection and disposal of solid waste; and
   (H)   Handling of special wastes, such as ashes, agriculture, construction,
bulky items, tires, oils, greases, vehicle batteries, stoves, appliances and
the like.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 53.21 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Deposit solid waste in any solid waste container other than his or her
own with the intent of avoiding payment of the service charge for solid waste
collection and disposal;
   (B)   Interfere in any manner with the solid waste collection equipment, or
with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance of their duties as such,
whether such equipment or collectors shall be those of the city;
   (C)   Burn solid waste;
   (D)   Dispose of solid waste at any facility or location which is not
approved; and
   (E)   Engage in the business of collecting or transporting solid waste
generated within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.22 SERVICE CHARGES AND BILLING.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed for the collection and disposal of solid waste
for each dwelling unit a sendee collection charge to be collected by the city.
The total fee for each dwelling unit shall be a line item charge on each
residential utility bill and shall be established by a solid waste collection
rate ordinance. Any dwelling unit that has an exclusive water meter service
shall pay the current ordinance residential rate for garbage collection. The
privilege and responsibility for the collection and regulation of charges and
fees belongs to the City Council; said billing fee shall be subject to
alteration according to city ordinances.
   (B)   The service collection charge for each commercial or business entity,
industrial or agricultural establishment or private institution, will be
determined by the city on the basis of quantity and characteristics of
material, point of pickup and the time required to collect the solid waste, and
shall be established by a solid waste collection rate ordinance.
   (C)   However, any commercial or business institution, industrial or
agricultural establishment, or private institution that cannot negotiate what
is felt to be a fair and equitable service collection charge may appeal to the
City Council. Should the City Council’s decision need to be appealed, the
customer can request that the city provide an arbitrator to resolve the service
fee. The arbitrator’s fee will be shared evenly between the two parties. Such
arbitration shall be provided once each year and all pending requests will be
resolved at that time and all decisions of the arbitration shall be binding on
all parties.
   (D)   The privilege and responsibility of regulating and collecting such
sendee collection charges for each commercial or business entity, industrial or
agricultural establishment or private institution belong to the city. Any
increase in residential sendee charges must be submitted to and approved by the
City Council under the rules and regulations thereby governing.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.15 through
53.22 of this chapter, or any lawful rules or regulations promulgated pursuant
thereto, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 or
more than $100; provided that, each day’s violation thereof shall be a separate
offense for the purpose thereof. The failure of any residential or commercial
customer to pay that portion of their utility bill that sets out the service
collection fee for solid waste shall result in that city utilities customer’s
water service being shut off as of the monthly termination date for said
payment. The city shall not accept partial payments toward these bills, except
in special circumstances authorized by the city and will not in any event
accept a payment for all utilities, except for garbage collection.
(Ord. 664-14, passed 6-16-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   PARKING RULES
   
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Trucks and trailers
   
70.02   Weight limits
   
70.03   Chief of Police authority
§ 70.01 TRUCKS AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether acting on his or her own
or by way of an agency relationship with any corporation, partnership or other
business entity, to operate a tractor/trailer truck on the city streets, unless
said operation is for the purpose of carrying out the legitimate business
interest (i.e., the delivery or pickup of merchandise and the like).
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the term OPERATING shall include all
driving of the vehicle and shall further include any parking of the truck and
trailer combination regardless of the length of time involved, or whether or
not the motor of the truck remains running during said parking. The term
TRACTOR/TRAILER shall mean a combined truck and trailer, and it shall not apply
to the truck (tractor) itself.
   (C)   The city cannot regulate those highways which are owned by the
commonwealth. This section is specifically limited in scope to those streets
which are owned by and are under the control of the city.
(Ord. 258-82, passed 12-20-1982) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 70.02 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   Police officers of the city, having reason to believe that the weight of any
motor vehicle operating on a city-maintained street is in excess of 36,000
pounds per axle, gross weight, may weigh it by portable scales. If the officer
shall determine that the operation of the motor vehicle was unlawful, he or she
shall require that the operator of same unload such portion of the load as may
be necessary to decrease the gross weight of the vehicle to the limit of 36,000
pounds per axle, gross weight. The excess load shall be unloaded at the sole
risk of the owner.
(Ord. 214-76, passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 70.03 CHIEF OF POLICE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall place and maintain traffic-control
devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the city to make
effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and maintain such
additional traffic-control devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate
traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city or to guide or warn traffic.
      (2)   He or she shall designate and maintain, by appropriate devices,
marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, cross at intersection where, in
his or her opinion, there is particular to pedestrians crossing the roadway,
and at such other places as he or she may deem necessary.
      (3)   He or she shall establish safety zones of such kind and character
and at such places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of
pedestrians.
      (4)   He or she shall mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians
consistent with the traffic ordinances of the city.
      (5)   He or she shall determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles shall not make a right or left or “U” turn, and shall place proper
signs at such intersections.
      (6)   He or she may temporarily establish a zone of quiet upon any street
where a person is seriously ill, if requested to do so by a written statement
of at least one registered physician certifying as to its necessity. Said
temporary zone of quiet shall embrace all territory within a radius of the
building occupied by the person named in the request of said physician. Said
temporary zone of quiet and any other zone of quiet declared by any ordinance
of the city shall be designated by the Chief of Police by placing, in a
conspicuous place on the street, a sign bearing the words “Quiet Zone”.
      (7)   He or she may declare any street in the residential section or part
of such street temporarily a “Play Street” and shall place appropriate signs or
devices in the roadway indicating or helping to protect same.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger zones and freight loading zones, and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable.
      (2)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and required to establish
bus stops and taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common carrier
motor vehicles of such public streets in such places and in such manner as to
afford the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus
stop, taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon that side of the street adjacent to any school
property, when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere with
traffic or create a hazardous situation.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall determine upon what streets angle parking
shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets.
      (3)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking on any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet, or
upon one side of the street as indicated by such signs when the width of the
roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
      (4)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine, and
designate by proper signs, distances not exceeding 100 feet at places where the
stopping or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition
or would cause unusual delay in traffic.
   (D)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate
where particular hazards exists upon any street or at any intersection and to
determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, and shall erect a stop sign at every such place where a stop is
required or, in the event the Chief of Police determines that reduced speed,
rather than a stop sign, adequate for safe operation at any such intersection,
he or she shall determine such safe speed by engineering investigation and
shall erect signs upon the approaches to such intersection, giving notice of
such speed limitation.
   (E)   Whenever by any ordinance of the city a one-way street is described or
any time-limit parking is imposed, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(Ord. 124, passed 11-4-1949) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
Parking Generally
   
71.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
71.02   Manner of parking
   
71.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
71.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
71.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
71.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
71.07   Parking on parade route
   
71.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
71.09   Owner responsibility
   
71.10   Parking in parks
   
71.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
71.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
71.13   Appeal Hearing Board
Impounding
   
71.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
71.21   Required notice to owner
   
71.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
71.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
71.36   Termination of emergency
   
71.37   Snow emergency routes
Regulations
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Prohibitive acts
   
71.47   Exemptions
   
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
(B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control into
any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
71.20 through
71.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner's expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 71.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 APPEAL HEARING BOARD.
   The Mayor of the city shall appoint citizens of to act as the Appeals
Hearing Board for purposes of parking violations under the following terms,
rules and regulations.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of five members, all over the age of 18 years,
each of which shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council with said appointments to be made in the regular sessions of the City
Council. Upon being selected, the five members shall then elect one of their
members to serve as Chairperson with each member being appointed to serve a
three-year term.
   (B)   It takes a minimum of three members of the Board to constitute a
quorum and a majority of that quorum to make a decision for the Board. Each
member shall have the right to make motions, second motions and vote on each
item before it; however, the Chairperson shall not be able to make motions or
second motions and shall vote only in the event of a tie or when his or her
vote is necessary to constitute a quorum.
   (C)   The Appeals Board will meet on a semi-annual basis at the City Hall
with the time and date of said meetings to be decided by the Board or as often
as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of KRS 82.620, a copy of
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by
reference.
   (D)   The person appealing the parking violation shall at the time of filing
the appeal pay the sum of $25 per citation appealed to the city as a filing fee
and to defray the administrative costs associated with the administration of
parking violations and their subsequent appeal. No appeal shall be accepted,
effective or filed until the filing fee has been paid in full.
   (E)   The person appealing the parking violation shall be present in person
and may have counsel present with him or her and shall testify under oath as to
the facts and circumstances which he or she believes justify his or her
position. He or she is further entitled to call witnesses to testify on his or
her behalf who also shall testify under oath. Failure of the person appealing
to appear shall be governed by KRS 82.620.
   (F)   The hearing will be recorded by the Chairperson by an audio recording
device and the permanent taped record shall be maintained by the City Clerk for
a period of one year or so long as legal action through appeals may be ongoing
regarding a particular item.
   (G)   All Board members, including the Chairperson, shall serve without
compensation.
   (H)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor with approval by
the Council within 60 days.
   (I)   The officer who issued the citation is not required to appear and, if
he or she does not appear, then the parking citation, or other written report
made under oath by the issuing officer, in lieu of the personal appearance of
the issuing officer, shall be considered by the Appeal Board.
   (J)   The order of proof to be utilized in these hearings shall be that the
city shall first present its side of the case, either by and through the
testimony of the issuing officer and possibly other witnesses or by
presentation of the sworn statement from the officer and/or the parking
citation. At that time, the appellant and his or her witnesses shall be allowed
to testify with rebuttal, if any, to be offered by the city. At the conclusion,
the Appeals Board shall retire for confidential deliberations, off the record,
for the purpose of determining the outcome of each appeal independently.
   (K)   After consideration of the evidence by the Appeals Hearing Board, and
where it has not been established that the violation was committed, an order
dismissing the citation shall be entered and the $25 appeal filing fee
previously paid by the appellant shall be returned to him or her.
   (K)   Further in all other respects KRS 82.620 shall control all time
periods with respect to the appeals process.
   (L)   All moneys paid for parking violations and their appeals will go into
the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 422-94, passed 12-5-1994; Ord. 17-19, passed 1-6-2020)
IMPOUNDING
§ 71.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
§ 71.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Refer to KRS 376.275.
§ 71.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928 shall have a
lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275
(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance with KRS
281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)    If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this section shall
be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing lienholder
pursuant to division (C).
   (C)   (1)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division (C) is not
sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days
of storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division (C) within 45 days of notification, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (C)(5)
above.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
through 281.936, 359.230, and 376.275, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage facility
may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(2)–(4)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 71.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until
he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which
the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
effect.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 71.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
REGULATIONS
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the following terms are used in this subchaper, they shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them in this section unless the context
clearly implies another meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of
the sidewalk lines at street intersections.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county or municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call.
   FIRE LANE. Section of curb or street marked with yellow paint, signs or both
to indicate no parking.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or the property
lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such
streets.
   LOADING ZONES. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   NON-METERED REGULATED PARKING ZONE. An area designed by this subchapter
whereby a vehicle may be temporarily parked and allowed to remain for a
specified period of time. Said area shall be that area within the boundaries
known as the Downtown Business District, which exists on both sides of Main
Street, from the north side of Main Street, 235 feet east to North Maple Street
and from the south side of Main Street 125 feet east of North Maple Street to
the railroad tracks. Said area shall also include the entirety of the parking
lot adjacent to the east of the Wilmore City Hall/Wilmore Police Station
presently located at 335 East Main Street, Wilmore, KY 40390.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons or materials.
   PARKING LOT. Those properties enumerated below, which are owned and/or
operated by the City Council as municipal parking lots:
      (1)   Municipal parking lot: Main Street; and
      (2)   City Hall parking lot: Main Street.
   PARKING SPACE. The spaces marked by white lines for vehicles to park
parallel to, or perpendicular from, the curb, within the non-metered regulated
parking zone.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines, when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of right, for the purpose
of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, vehicles or the conveyances, whether singly or
together, while using any highway for the purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon a highway, except a device moving by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 581-07, passed 5- -2007; Ord. 2-19, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 71.46 PROHIBITIVE ACTS.
   (A)   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in
any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic, emergency vehicles, or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer, a traffic officer or a traffic-control device:
      (1)   In any intersection;
      (2)   In a crosswalk;
      (3)   Upon a bridge or viaduct or the approach thereto;
      (4)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
      (5)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail or railroad grade crossing;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department
station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance when properly
posted;
      (7)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
      (8)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
      (9)   At any place so designated and marked by red or yellow paint by the
City Council by order or ordinance; and
      (10)   In any fire lane, or in front of, or within ten feet of, a fire
hydrant or stand pipe.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to
the curb (driver’s side), except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful
to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and
with the two right wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly
established curb line; except, upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the same angle to the curb indicated
by such markings.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to stand a non-commercial vehicle in a loading
zone for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading
of passengers.
   (D)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no such person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to an abutting property.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any commercial
motor vehicle having a load capacity in excess of one ton to park on any street
for more than 24 hours. (This division (E)(1) shall be construed to include the
trailer of a tractor-trailer vehicle.)
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any truck
commonly designated and referred to as a two-ton truck or any higher weight
capacity, boats, trailers, recreation vehicles or camper on the streets of the
city for a period exceeding 48 successive hours.
   (F)   No motor vehicle shall park in the opposite direction from the regular
flow of traffic on that particular side of the street.
   (G)   No person shall park a vehicle within any area designated as a towing
zone.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in an area marked by two-hour
parking signs for a period of more than two hours between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
   (I)   There may be an established “Handicapped Parking” place within the
heart of the Central Business District, whereby it shall be unlawful to park
any vehicle that is not marked as being driven by a handicapped person.
Handicapped parking spaces are in effect 24 hours a day.
   (J)   A handicapped person is defined in KRS 189.456, and as qualified
therein, may park for two hours in excess of the limits established herein. A
handicapped person as qualified in KRS 189.435 may also park in any legal
parking space within the Central Business District for two hours in excess of
the limits established herein.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to move a vehicle within the same block for the
purpose of avoiding having the tires marked by traffic enforcement officers.
   (L)   The city may authorize specifically designated parking spaces within
the city as loading zones for commercial vehicles, to be utilized for no other
purpose.
(Ord. 581-07, passed 5- -2007; Ord. 2-19, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Vehicles delivering goods and merchandise and repair vehicles are
permitted to double park in the Downtown District for a reasonable time to
effect said delivery or repair.
   (B)   An exemption permit shall be displayed by placing said permit on the
dashboard passenger side of the vehicle so that the printing on the exemption
permit can be read. Any alteration(s) to an exemption permit, or obscuring of
information printed on an exemption permit (e.g., folding such permit so any
printed information is not visible), including, without limitation, any changes
to which exemption permit is issued, shall deem the exemption permit invalid.
   (C)   Permits to allow parking during restricted hours within a restricted
parking area shall be issued by the City Council, at a regularly scheduled
meeting thereof, and shall be issued for the least amount of time necessary to
accommodate the needs of the applicant.
   (D)   Permits, in the form of dashboard display signs, shall be issued for a
period of up to 12 months. A new permit shall begin June 1 of each calendar
year.
(Ord. 581-07, passed 5- -2007; Ord. 2-19, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense. This division shall
apply to any person receiving a citation not listed in division (C) below.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (C)   (1)   Rates and fines.
         (a)   There shall be a two-hour free parking limit on all parking
spaces within the parking lot adjacent to the east of the Wilmore City Hall/
Wilmore Police Station presently located at 335 East Main Street. Wilmore, KY;
and all parking spaces in the Downtown District on both sides of Main Street,
from the north side of Main Street, 235 feet east of North Maple Street; and
from the south side of Main Street, 125 feet east of North Maple Street to the
railroad tracks. All vehicles parking in excess of said limit shall be fined
$25 for the initial offense and each additional hour of violation may be
ticketed as a separate offense.
         (b)   Parking tickets will be issued for the following violations and
fined charges accordingly:
Violation Fine
Violation                                                             Fine
Violation - handicapped parking                                       $50
Parking heading in the wrong direction                                $10
Blocking intersection                                                 $25
Parking in fire lane                                                  $50
Parking in no parking zone                                            $25
Double parking                                                        $25
Parking on yellow line                                                $25
Blocking fire hydrant                                                 $50
Other - Violations not listed above to include parking in excess of 2 $25
hours and violations of the Kentucky Revised Statutes
 
         (c)   The fact that an automobile, which is illegally parked is
registered in the name of a person, shall be considered prima facie evidence
that such a person was in control of the automobile at the time of such
parking.
         (d)   All parking tickets, fines and late charges shall be payable at
the City Hall or paid by placing the amount of the fine in the ticket and
depositing it in the drop box or by placing the ticket and fine amount in an
envelope and mailing it to Wilmore City Hall, 335 East Main Street, Wilmore, KY
40390.
         (e)   The persons receiving parking tickets may follow the appeals
process set up by the City Council; provided, written notice of the intent to
appeal is served upon the City Clerk within seven days of the citation date.
Any person not filing an appeal or persons who appeal and lose and do not pay
the ticket within seven days of the appeal hearing shall be deemed to be a
delinquent parking ticket.
         (f)   The Police Department shall, at the end of each month, obtain a
list of all delinquent parking tickets from the City Hall and deliver said list
the County Attorney for issuance of a criminal summons against said person for
each citation. The traffic enforcement officer shall represent the city in
court for offences related to parking tickets or violations.
      (2)   Penalties.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
71.45 through 74.17 of this chapter and has not paid their fines within 30 days
of said violation shall be charged with a misdemeanor offense and, upon
conviction in the County District Court, may be punished by a fine of not more
than $50, in addition to the parking fines owed. All ticket penalties and
Court-ordered fines shall be payable to the General Fund of the city.
         (b)   If, at any time, the owner or operator of a motor vehicle is
cited for a violation of §§
71.45 through
71.47 of this chapter and there exists five or more outstanding unpaid
citations against said motor vehicle, the issuing police officer or traffic
enforcement officer may cause the vehicle to be towed and impounded, after
proper notifications, and said vehicle shall not be released to the owner or
operator unless and until the towing fee and all parking fines have been paid
and a permit authorized release is obtained from the Police Department.
         (c)   Upon finding violations of the following prohibitive acts, a
police officer or traffic enforcement officer, at his or her discretion, is
hereby authorized and empowered to cause said vehicle to be towed and impounded
if said vehicle is impeding the flow of traffic, is a hazard to pedestrians or
to other vehicles, or is a potential danger to persons or property. The
following is non-inclusive listing of examples of such:
            1.   In any intersection;
            2.   In a crosswalk;
            3.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a
driveway;
            4.   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department
station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance when properly
posted;
            5.   On any sidewalk or parkway;
            6.   At any place so designated and marked by red or yellow paint
by the City Council by order or ordinance; and/or
            7.   In any fire lane, or in front of, or within ten feet of, a
fire hydrant or stand pipe.
         (d)   In addition to the other penalties prescribed herein, the Police
Department, upon finding an unattended motor vehicle parking on any city
street, is hereby authorized and empowered to cause said vehicle to be towed
and impounded in accord with the provisions of §§
71.20 through
71.22.
         (e)   Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any persons to park on a
city street a non- licensed/non-operational motor vehicle, and the Police
Department is immediately have same towed, at the owner’s expense, if a
violation of this section occurs, pursuant to the provisions of §§
71.20 through
71.22.
(Ord. 581-07, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 2-19, passed 4-15-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Definition
   
72.02   City-authorized use
   
72.03   Operation requirements
   
72.04   Slow-moving vehicle standards
   
72.05   Procedures for approval
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Rules, see
Ch. 71
   Streets and Public Property, see
Ch. 151
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. Any self propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designated for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the conditions of the grounds on a golf
course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designated to operate at a speed of not more than 35 mph;
      (4)   Is designated to carry not more passengers than are recommended by
the manufacturer of the unit;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rate payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Is equipped with the following:
         (a)   Headlamps;
         (b)   Tail lamps;
         (c)   Stop lamps;
         (d)   Front and rear turn signals;
         (e)   One red reflex reflector on each side as far to the rear as
practicable, and one red reflex reflector on the rear;
         (f)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger's side of the vehicle or
an interior mirror;
         (g)   A parking brake;
         (h)   For each designated seating position, a seatbelt assembly that
conforms to the federal motor vehicle safety standard provided in 49 C.F.R. §
571.209; and
         (i)   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080; and
(KRS 189.286(1)(a)) (Ord. 607-09, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 72.02 CITY-AUTHORIZED USE.
   (A)   The city is within five road miles of an entrance to a golf course
(Lone Oak Country Club).
   (B)   Therefore, according to KRS 189.286 allows authorized use of a golf
cart on public roadways within the city’s jurisdiction, with the exclusion of
the following:
      (1)   North Lexington from Barr Street to the north city limits,
including U.S. 68 and Kentucky 29;
      (2)   East College Street, east of the cemetery entrance; and
      (3)   West Main Street from Akers Drive to the west city limits.
   (C)   No golf carts are permitted on city walking trails, including, but not
limited to, Centennial Park and North Lexington Avenue.
   (D)   Maintenance vehicles may cross public streets.
(Ord. 607-09, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   This subchapter shall require that a golf cart operating on a designated
public roadway will meet the following requirements.
   (A)   A permit must be obtained for the golf cart from the city’s Police
Department for a fee of $25, which will be renewed annually.
   (B)   The Police Department issued permit must be displayed on the golf
cart.
   (C)   The golf cart must be inspected, by a certified inspector, by the
county’s Sheriff’s Office.
   (D)   Operators must have a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession while operating the vehicle.
   (E)   The golf cart can only be operated between sunrise and sunset.
   (F)   The golf cart must display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (G)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.49 by the owner or the operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a public
roadway.
   (H)   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway shall be subject
to the traffic regulations of KRS Ch. 189.
   (I)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway designated by the city is
not considered to be a motor vehicle and is exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-710
through 224.20-715.
   (J)   Each golf cart shall have an orange-colored flag, of a triangular
shape, flying at least eight feet above the ground.
   (K)   Golf cart shall be equipped with functioning windshield wipers.
(Ord. 607-09, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   Each golf cart shall have the following equipment to be compliant with the
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards for slow-moving vehicles:
   (A)   Headlamps;
   (B)   Front and rear turn signal lamps;
   (C)   Tail lamps;
   (D)   Stop lamps;
   (E)   Reflex reflectors, one red on each side as far to the rear as
practical and one red on the rear;
   (F)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle and
either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or an
interior mirror;
   (G)   A parking brake;
   (H)   A windshield that conforms to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard on glazing materials (49 C.F.R. § 571.205);
   (I)   A VIN/serial number; and
   (J)   Appropriate seatbelts installed at each designated seating position.
(Ord. 607-09, passed 8-3-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   To certify a golf cart to operate within the city, an application must
be obtained from the city’s Police Department and completed.
   (B)   The application must be presented to the county’s Sheriff’s Office at
the time of inspection to obtain the inspecting deputy’s signature at the
completion of a successful inspection.
   (C)   The application then must be returned to the city’s Police Department
for the permit, which will be placed on the golf cart by the officer.
   (D)   The application must be signed by the city’s Police Department, Chief
of Police, the Deputy Chief of Police or the sergeant.
   (E)   Application and permit information will be maintained at the city’s
Police Department.
(Ord. 607-09, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.05 of this chapter shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be fined no
less than $50, nor more than $150. Any person convicted of a subsequent
violation of §§
72.01 through
72.05 of this chapter within two years of a prior conviction under §§
72.01 through
72.05 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $150, nor more than $250.
(Ord. 607-09, passed 8-3-2009)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Stop streets and intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The maximum speed at which an automobile, motorcycle or motor truck
of any description may be driven through the streets of the city shall not
exceed 25 mph.
      (2)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of this division (A)
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100,
for each offense.
   (B)   Specific.
 
Street/Location    Speed Limit
East Barr Street   15 mph
Epworth            15 mph
Gaile Morris Court 15 mph
Highway 29         35 mph
Pleasantview       15 mph
 
(Ord. 71, passed 12-4-1936; Ord. 4, passed 1-20-1922; Ord. 364-91, passed 6-17-
1991; Ord. 410-94, passed 6-17-1994)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street        Direction
Bethel Street Traffic allowed to travel from north to south only
 
(Ord. 234-79, passed 6-4-1979)
SCHEDULE III. STOP STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS.
 
Street/Location           Regulation                 Penalty
On College Street, one on Come to a stop before      First conviction: not less
the east side and one on  entering Lexington Avenue; than $2, nor more than $10
the west side of          drive to the right of the
Lexington Avenue and one  red light signal in the    Second conviction: not
on the east side of Main  center of Main Street of   less than $10, nor more
Street and on the west    the east side of Lexington than $25
side of Lexington Avenue  Avenue
 
(Ord. 54, passed 3-21-1930)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking limitations
SCHEDULE I. PARKING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   (a)   The city, through its City Council, Mayor and Chief of
Police, shall work together to adopt and periodically revise a list of streets
and portions of streets in the city that will be limited, in whole or in part,
to two-hour parking.
         (b)   Upon the creation of this list of streets or portions of
streets, the Chief of Police of the city shall cause to be posted appropriate
signs so as to give notice to the motoring public as to which portions of said
streets are limited to two hours in parking.
         (c)   The Chief of Police of the city shall instruct his or her
officers to take all reasonable steps to ensure that the two-hour time
limitation is adhered to by the motoring public so that no operator of any
motor vehicle shall permit same to remain in these parking spaces for more than
a two-hour time period.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle to
park a motor vehicle in such a fashion as to have the driver’s side of the
vehicle next to the curb. It is the intention of this division (A)(2) to
prohibit any person from parking or allowing a car to stand, whether or not in
a designated parking space, in such a fashion as to require the driver to cross
the oncoming lane of the roadway for the purposes of either gaining access to
the parking location or removing the vehicle therefrom.
         (b)   Violators of this division (A)(2) shall be subject to a citation
from the city’s Police Department, which will result in a fine of $10.
   (B)   Specific.
Street/Location Side Restriction Penalty
Street/Location         Side   Restriction              Penalty
Bethel Street           West   No parking
Lexington Avenue to            Parking inside the white
South Maple Street             lines parallel with the
                               sidewalk
Lexington Avenue, from
Morrison Street on             1-hour parking only,     Not less than $2, nor
north to the south city        except during church or  more than $10
limits of Lexington            entertainment events
Avenue
                                                        First offense: not less
Main Street, between                                    than $1, nor more than
South Maple Street and         No bus parking or truck  $3
the Railroad                   parking, over 1/2 ton    Second and subsequent
                                                        offense: not less than
                                                        $5, nor more than $10
North Walnut Street,
between Gillispie       Either No parking
Street and College
Street
                               Parallel of Team Track
Rice Street                    and Norfolk Southern
                               Railroad
South Maple Street, to
the property line of           Diagonal between the     Not less than $2, nor
the Norfolk Southern           white lines              more than $10
Railroad
 
(Ord. 55, passed 3-21-1930; Ord. 56, passed 1-4-1930; Ord. 58, passed 7-7-1932;
Ord. 139B, passed 5-3-1954; Ord. 226-78, passed 5-15-1978; Ord. 294-87, passed
2-2-1987; Ord. 362-91, passed 3-4-1991)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
90.   TREES
   
91.   FAIR HOUSING
   
92.   CEMETERIES
   
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
94.   ANIMALS
   
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
96.   NOISE POLLUTION; NUISANCE RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 90: TREES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Tree Board
   
90.04   Tree topping
   
90.05   Tree maintenance in public rights-of-way
   
90.06   Tree protection
   
90.07   Undesirable tree species
   
90.08   Suggested tree species
   
90.09   Street tree planting
   
90.10   New development
   
90.11   Unacceptable trees
   
90.12   Acceptable trees
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the beauty of the city, to unify
neighborhoods by suggested tree selection and to establish a policy for street
trees in proposed new housing developments. Furthermore, this chapter will
protect and promote the health of established trees in the parks and public
property. This chapter provides for the definition and work of a diverse member
Tree Board that includes a Community Tree Manager.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREE. Any tree species that normally attains a full-grown height in
excess of 50 feet.
   MEDIUM TREE. Any tree species that normally attains a full-grown height
between 26 feet and 50 feet.
   PERSON. Any person, corporation, partnership, company, contraction firm or
other entity, including those employed under a contract with the city.
   SMALL TREE. Any tree species that normally attains a full-grown height of
under 26 feet.
   STREET TREE. Any tree within the public right-of-way or designated tree
planting easement.
   TREE PLANTING EASEMENT. The tree planting area as shown on a recorded plat
or on a recorded tree planting easement.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 90.03 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   A Tree Board, appointed by the Mayor, shall be established. The Tree
Board shall consist of five concerned and interested citizens of the city or
the county, including the following:
      (1)   One member shall be a professional in the tree field, preferably a
landscape architect or a Certified Arborist, ISA (International Society of
Arboriculture) certified;
      (2)   Another member shall be actively engaged in horticulture;
      (3)   The representative from Public Works, as well as Parks and
Recreation, shall be the Community Tree Manager;
      (4)   A member of the Community Development Board; and
      (5)   The Arbor Day Chairperson from the Community Development Board.
   (B)   The representative of Public Works and Parks shall be a permanent
member of the Board through his or her city employment in these capacities. All
other Tree Board members shall serve staggered terms of four years.
   (C)   In the event a vacancy shall occur during the term of any appointed
member, a successor shall be appointed for the expired portion of the term. All
members of the Tree Board shall serve without pay.
   (D)   The Tree Board shall establish the Board’s rules, regulations and
procedures and arrange for the holding of meetings on a regular basis, with no
less than four meetings per calendar year. Three or more members of the Tree
Board shall constitute a quorum and a majority of those present can take action
on any business at hand.
   (E)   The duties of the Tree Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   To establish guidelines, offer advice and provide guidance for tree
planting in the city;
      (2)   To work with new development representatives to ensure that this
chapter is carried out;
      (3)   To advise persons on matters of tree planting, care, preservation,
planning, removal and replacement, as well as the disposition of trees in
parks, along streets and in public areas as needed;
      (4)   To promote urban forestry;
      (5)   To assist the city government in protection, care and maintenance
of city trees; and
      (6)   To oversee the city tree nursery.
   (F)   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the
Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make the final
decision.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 90.04 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be a normal practice that persons may not top any tree within a
public right-of-way. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or trees under utility wires or other
obstruction where other pruning practices are impractical, are hereby exempted
from this section.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 TREE MAINTENANCE IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Owners of street trees shall provide reasonable care and maintenance
to trees within the public right-of-way or tree planting easement, including as
appropriate, watering, pruning, insect control and removal of dead or diseased
limbs.
   (B)   Owners or occupants of any building or lot zoned residential may not
permit any tree, including street trees, to grow in a manner that interferes
with a normal sidewalk located on such lot or on a public right-of-way
adjoining such lot, or street traffic, or to grow so as to pose a threat to
safety or public rights-of-way due to obstruction of view, obstruction of
passage or in any other manner.
   (C)   The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be
seven feet over sidewalks and 12 feet over all streets, except truck routes
that shall have a clearance of 14 feet.
   (D)   Any person who removes a tree on the public right-of-way shall replace
the removed tree in accordance with the requirements and specifications set
forth in §
90.09 of this chapter with a tree from the list of “desirable trees” from the
list in §
90.12 of this chapter or as approved by the Tree Board. The Tree Board may
waive this requirement where replacement would be inappropriate under the
standards set forth in §
90.09 of this chapter.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 TREE PROTECTION.
   All street trees within ten feet of any excavation or construction of any
building, structure, street work or sidewalk shall be guarded with a protective
barrier of a least eight feet in diameter or as space will allow. All building
materials, dirt or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier. Any trees
damaged or removed due to excavation or construction shall be replaced in the
original location or as close to the original location as possible by the
person doing the excavation or construction.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 UNDESIRABLE TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   Some trees have characteristics that make them unacceptable for use in
public rights-of-way and are not recommended for street trees in §
90.11 of this chapter.
   (B)   Undesirable traits for street tree plantings include:
      (1)   Disease or insect problems;
      (2)   Dirty, drooping branches, objectionable fruit or bark;
      (3)   Weak-wooded, apt to lose large branches in wind or with age;
      (4)   Unpredictable or irregular habits;
      (5)   Root problems, shallow and destructive roots; or
      (6)   Unsafe, dangerously thorny or poisonous.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 90.08 SUGGESTED TREE SPECIES.
   Trees with characteristics that make them acceptable for use in public
rights-of-way and which are recommended for street trees are these in §
90.12 of this chapter or as approved by the Tree Board.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 90.09 STREET TREE PLANTING.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be implemented in all new
developments and in established neighborhoods concerning street tree planting.
      (1)   The tree to be planted shall not be an undesirable tree species, as
named in §
90.11 of this chapter.
      (2)   The minimum spacing between trees is 45 feet (large tree), 35 feet
(medium tree) and 25 feet (small tree), if possible.
      (3)   The tree location is to be at least 50 feet in advance of stop or
yield signs, 25 feet in advance of any other standard regulatory or warning
signs, ten feet from fire hydrants or utility poles and 15 feet from driveway
entrances if installed between the sidewalk and the street.
      (4)   A small tree is to be used when planting within ten lateral feet of
overhead utility wires. A small or medium tree is to be used when planting
within ten to 20 lateral feet of overhead utility wires. These requirements do
not apply to service lines.
      (5)   The property owner shall maintain the tree after the tree is
planted. Maintenance shall include as necessary, watering, pruning, removal of
dead or diseased limbs and insect control.
   (B)   In new developments, the Tree Board shall require proposed planting
sites to be in compliance with requirements relating to utilities, obstructions
and potential interference with future construction.
   (C)   In new developments, the Tree Board or City Council may waive any of
the conditions in granting approval where such action would promote the
preservation of the health, integrity or appearance of an area’s tree
population.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 NEW DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All development plans must provide for street trees and tree planting
easements and trees for any new parkland in the development.
   (B)   The Tree Board must be presented with the landscape plan for all new
development within the city to determine compliance with this chapter. The
developer or his or her designee must appear before the Tree Board to present
his or her plans for compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   When the Board has approved the tree plan, the Tree Board will so
inform the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 90.11 UNACCEPTABLE TREES.
Species Common Name Reason
Species                Common Name                  Reason
Acer saccharinum       Silver Maple                 Extensive root system
Aescuhts hippocastanum Horse Chestnut               Messy
Beuda papyrifera       Paper Birch                  Intolerant and pest problem
Betula pendula         European White Birch         Intolerant and pest
Castanea dentata       American Chestnut            Chestnut blight
Castanea mollissima    Chinese Chestnut             Prickly fruit
Ginkgo biloba (female) Gingko                       Messy fruit
Gleditsia triacanthos  Common Honey Locust          Excessive thorns
Kalopanax pictus       Castor Aralia                Excessive thorns
Morus alba             White Mulberry               Messy fruit
Morus rubra            Red Mulberry                 Messy fruit
Populus sp.            All species                  Weak wooded
Catalpa bignoides      Southern Catalpa             Messy
Malus pumila           Common Apple                 Fruit too large, weedy
Pyrus calleryana       Bradford Pear                Weak wooded
Sorbussp.              All species                  Disease and pest prone
Ulmus americana        American Elm                 Dutch elm disease
Ulmus carpiniflora     Smooth leaf Elm              Dutch elm disease
Ulmus pumila           Siberian Elm                 Dutch elm disease
Prumus cerasifera      Cherry Plum                  Disease problems
Prumus persica         Peach                        Disease problems
Vitex agnus-castus     Chastetree                   Not hardy in KY
Malus sp.              Selected crabapple cultivars Disease and insect prone
Quercus palustrus      Pin Oak                      Bacterial leaf scorch
Pinus nigra            Austrian Pine                Diplodia tip blight
 
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 90.12 ACCEPTABLE TREES.
   (A)   Large trees.
Species Common Name Size Cultivar
Species                  Common Name       Size    Cultivar
Acer rubrum              Red maple         40-60’Various cultivars
Acer saccharum           Sugar Maple       60-75’
Celtis occidentalis      Sugar Hackberry   60-80’
Cercidiphyllum japonicum Katsura           40-60’
Eucommia ulmoides        Hardy Rubber Tree 40-60’
Fraxinus americana       White Ash         50-80’Autumn Purple
Fraxinus quadrangulata   Blue Ash          50-70’
Ginkgo biloba            Gingko (male)     50-80’Autumn Gold
Liquidamber styraciflua  Sweetgum          60-70’Festival, Moraine
Platanus acerfolia       London Plane      70-100Bloodgood
Quercus alba             White Oak         60-100’
Quercus coccinea         Scarlet Oak       70-75’
Quercus imbricaria       Shingle Oak       50-60’
Quercus muehlenbergi     Chinkapin Oak     70-80’
Quercus nigra            Water Oak         50-80’
Quercus phellos          Willow Oak        50-60’
Quercus robur            English Oak       60-80’
Quercus rubra            Red Oak           60-75’
Quercus shumardii        Shumard Oak       40-60’
Sophora japonica         Japanese Pagoda   50-70’
Taxodium distichum       Bald Cypress      50-70’Shawnee Brave
Tillia cordata           Littleleaf Linden 60-70’Chancellor, Greenspire
Ulmus parvifolia         Lacebark Elm      40-60’
Zelkova serrata          Japanese Zelkova  50-80’Village Green
 
   (B)   Medium trees.
Species Common Name Height Cultivar
Species                 Common Name           Height Cultivar
Acer campestre          Hedge Maple           25-35’
Cladratis kentuckea     Yellowwood            30-50’
Gleditsia triacanthos   Thornless Honeylocust 30-50Various cultivars
Halesia carolina        Carolina Silverbell   30-40’
Koelreutaria paniculate Goldenraintree        30-40’
Nyssa sylvatica         Blackgum              30-50’
Ostrya virginiana       Hophornbeam           25-40’
Oxdendrun arboreum      Sourwood              25-30’
Parrotia persica        Persian Parrotia      20-40’
Sassafras albidium      Sassafras             30-60’
Syrina reticulata       Japanese Tree Lilac   20-30’
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Native trees denoted by bold lettering.
 
   (C)   Small trees.
SPECIES Common Name Height Cultivar
SPECIES                Common Name            Height Cultivar
Acer ginnala           Amur Maple             15-18’
Amelanchier laevis     Allegheny Serviceberry 15-25’
Cercis candensis       Eastern Redbud         20-25’
Chionanthus virginicus Fringetree             15-30’
Crataegus phaenopyrum  Washington Hawthorn    20-30’
Craetegus vurudus      Green Hawthorn         20-30Winter King
Craetegus lavallei     Lavalle Hawthorn       15-25’
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Native trees denoted by bold lettering.
 
(Ord. 528-03, passed 12-1-2003)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   ...missing material...
   
91.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Exemption
   
91.08   Administration
   
91.09   ...missing material...
   
91.10   Enforcement
   
91.11   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence
   
91.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
91.13   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06 of this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
91.07 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below; and
   (B)   Nothing in §
91.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that,
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B)(1) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further that, such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses any one
time; provided further that, the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this title only if such house is sold
or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after
notice...MISSING MATERIAL...
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ...MISSING MATERIAL...
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for
the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national origin
of such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with
such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, leasee, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided that, nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in §
91.03(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped status.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be with the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any
work, business or matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall, by rule,
prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his or her hearing
examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the city to boards
of officers or to himself or herself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance
with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will
further the purposes...MISSING MATERIAL...
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.09 ...MISSING MATERIAL...
...of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and shall
endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter, “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Mayor requires.
Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Mayor shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing
to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Mayor
decides to resolve the complaints, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate
or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of
conference, conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of
such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and, with the leave of the Mayor which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor, the
Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the
person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the
Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor will
assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within 30
days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days hereafter
commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the respondent named
in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected by this chapter,
insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If the court
finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur,
the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such practice or order
such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENA; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that, the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the production of such materials,
or the appearance of such persons, any may issue interrogatories to a
respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would
apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a
civil action in the United States District Court for the district in which the
investigation is taking place. The Mayor may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the same of the
Mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the Mayor himself or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a
respondent shall show on their faces the name and address of such respondent
and shall state that they were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   (1)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person,
such person may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena.
      (2)   The Mayor shall grant the petition if he or she finds that the
subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place,
that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter
under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity
the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous or for
other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor or other
person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in the
state court for the district in which the person to whom the subpoena was
addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 and
91.06 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however,
that, the court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section
or §
91.10(D) of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result
in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained or
in the complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the
action in court; and, provided, however, that, any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided that, the said plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume said attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 91.13 INTERFERENCE. COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with
any persons in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06 of this chapter.
   (B)   This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with the following shall be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results
shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or handicapped status, and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped status in any of
the activities, services, organization or facilities described in subsection 15
(a); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in subsection 15(a), or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assemble opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of §
91.10(A) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than one year.
   (B)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
as per §
91.11 of this chapter, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena
or lawful order of the Mayor, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned
not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead
the Mayor, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact
in any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the Mayor
pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to
make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in such reports,
accounts, records, or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by
any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   (C)   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat
of force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with the persons listed in § 91.14 of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both; and, if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than
$10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and, if death results
shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 468-98, passed 5-11-1998)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fees
   
92.02   Cemetery Board
Rules and Regulations
   
92.15   Adoption of rules and regulations
   
92.16   General information
   
92.17   Plots
   
92.18   Flowers
   
92.19   Decorations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FEES.
   (A)   The reasonable and necessary fee to purchase a cemetery plot within
the Wilmore Cemetery is $1,000. The cemetery plot is sized to accommodate one
vault or two infant burials or two cremation burials.
   (B)   The reasonable and necessary fee to purchase an infant or cremation
plot within the Wilmore Cemetery is $500. The infant or cremation plot is sized
to accommodate one infant burial or one cremation burial.
   (C)   The reasonable and necessary fee to open and close a grave site is
$1,000 if opened and closed on weekdays between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., local
time. At all other times, the fee to open and close a grave site is $1,200.
   (D)   The reasonable and necessary fee to open an infant or cremation burial
site is $500 if opened and closed on weekdays between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.,
local time. At all other times, the fee to open and close an infant or
cremation burial site is $600.
   (E)   These fees may be adjusted each year, by a schedule of fees approved
by the City Council, by ordinance to reflect current costs.
   (F)   Any person or entity seeking to purchase a plot for burial in the
Wilmore Cemetery shall be assessed and shall pay the fee in conjunction with
recording his or her ownership of the plot.
   (G)   No person other than city designated employees or agents may open and/
or close a gravesite, infant burial site or cremation burial site within the
Wilmore Cemetery.
(Ord. 685-15, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment of a City Cemetery Board. There is hereby
created and established a City Cemetery Board, which shall consist of five
members with at least one member to be a Council member, and including citizens
and residents of the city who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the Council.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years; except that, the term of two of the members
appointed to the first Board shall be for only one year and the term of two
members of the first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, develop, fundraise and/or update annually and administer a written
plan known as the Wilmore Cemetery Policy Manual for the care, preservation and
maintenance of the Wilmore Cemetery. Such plan will be presented annually to
the City Council and, upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the
official Cemetery Policy Manual for the city. In connection with its
development of a Policy Manual, the Board will develop a vision or purpose
statement for the Wilmore Cemetery.
      (2)   The Board will promote and encourage the use and betterment of the
Wilmore Cemetery and, in turn, foster community support for the cemetery.
      (3)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
      (4)   The Board will abide by and recommend future amendments to the
rules and regulations of the Wilmore Cemetery adopted by the city by and
through its legislative body the City Council.
      (5)   The Board will study, investigate and develop an oral history for
the Wilmore Cemetery and a walking tour. The Board will determine if after
studying and investigating the history of the Wilmore Cemetery if a walking
tour is feasible and advisable. The Board will update the Council annually as
to its findings.
   (E)   Operation. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations (subject to Council approval and oversight) and keep a journal
of its findings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   (F)   Review by City Council. The City Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts and decisions of the city’s Cemetery Board.
(Ord. 686-15, passed 10-19-2015)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.15 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   For the protection of plot owners and uniformity throughout the cemetery,
the City Council has adopted rules and regulations to be observed by all plot
owners and visitors.
(Ord. 684-15, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 92.16 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Wilmore Cemetery is owned and operated by the city. The cemetery
is open from dawn to dusk.
   (B)   The office (at City Hall) is open from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday
through Friday. Saturday hours by appointment.
   (C)   Visitors are expected to respect the solemn nature of the cemetery by
wearing shirts and shoes and not participating in picnicking, parties or sports
activities. Alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs and unauthorized loitering are
strictly prohibited.
   (D)   Pets must be on a leash and owners must thoroughly cleanup after their
pets. Vehicles must remain on the paved areas.
   (E)   The Wilmore Cemetery reserves the right to deny entrance to anyone who
is not a plot owner or a visitor to a specific gravesite.
   (F)   By purchasing grave plots in the Wilmore Cemetery, the purchaser
agrees to the terms and conditions contained herein.
(Ord. 684-15, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.17 PLOTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of these rules, a BORDERED AREA is defined as an area
that extends no more than twelve inches from the front of the headstone or
marker and six inches to either side and from the back of a marker.
   (B)   Plot owners may decorate only within the bordered area of their own
plots.
   (C)   Each plot owner is permitted to place on their plot only those flowers
and decorations that conform to cemetery regulations.
   (D)   (1)   Weeding flowerbeds and small plantings in the bordered area are
the responsibility of the plot owner.
      (2)   Wilmore Cemetery reserves the right to remove or cut back any
flowerbed or shrubbery that becomes unsightly or encroaches on another plot.
      (3)   No thorn bushes are allowed.
(Ord. 684-15, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.18 FLOWERS.
   (A)   Cut flowers will be removed and discarded by the cemetery when they
become unsightly.
   (B)   Artificial flowers are permitted on headstones or markers in the
bordered areas year-round, but may be removed by cemetery personnel if they
become faded or deteriorated.
(Ord. 684-15, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19 DECORATIONS.
   (A)   During mowing season, no wires or artificial flower stems will be
permitted on or in the ground to ensure the safety of workers and equipment.
   (B)   The following will not be permitted on any plot for the safety of our
employees, equipment and visitors: wire fences, glass of any kind, hedges,
trellises, gravel or metal decorations including stakes, rods (with the
exception of shepherd hooks), pipes and chains.
   (C)   Decorations that violate cemetery regulations will be removed and
discarded.
   (D)   Items with advertising, items that may be deemed offensive (such as
excessive lighting, excessive pinwheels and the like), clothing items and
similar items are not permitted on a headstone, placed in a bordered area or
added to any portion of a plot.
   (E)   Items of a nature unique to a holiday will be allowed to be placed in
bordered areas no more than 21 days before the holiday and shall be permitted
to remain for no more than 21 days following the holiday, at which time they
may be removed and discarded by cemetery personnel.
   (F)   Two shepherd hooks are permitted per cemetery plot and shall be placed
in bordered areas only or against the back of a headstone.
   (G)   Articles made of concrete (urns, boxes and the like) are permitted
only in bordered areas.
   (H)   The cemetery staff reserves the right to exclude or remove from any
cemetery plot such stones, monuments or other things as shall be deemed by it
to be improper, offensive or injurious to that or the adjacent plots or
grounds.
   (I)   Unattended open fires, candles, oil lanterns or other incendiary
devices are prohibited.
   (J)   Ornamental shrubbery and trees may not be planted around headstones or
markers.
   (K)   When in doubt about a grave display, please contact City Hall.
   (L)   The Wilmore Cemetery does not accept responsibility for loss or damage
to monuments, flowers or decorations whether from acts of God, accidents,
vandals or thieves.
   (M)   The Wilmore City Council reserves the right to amend these policies,
as it deems necessary, for the care of the cemetery and the protection of the
plot owners.
(Ord. 684-15, passed 10-19-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
93.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
93.04   Abatement procedure
   
93.05   Nuisance created by others
   
93.06   Suspension of license
Weeds and Grass
   
93.15   Declaration of nuisance
   
93.16   Notice to abate
   
93.17   Service of notice
   
93.18   Abatement by city
   
93.19   Lien
   
93.20   Property to be sold
   
93.21   Court proceedings
   
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
NUISANCES
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(b))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(e))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than 10 consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor-driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(h))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(j))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 93.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interfere
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, cause
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitute an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for those purposes.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 65.8840(4), it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any premises within
the city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to
develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
(KRS 65.8840(3))
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject premises that
necessitates immediate action, the city shall send, within 14 days of a final
determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the owner, a copy of the
determination to any lien holder of record of the subject premises by first-
class mail with proof of mailing. The lien holder of record may, within 45 days
from receipt of that notice, correct the violations cited or elect to pay all
civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of KRS 65.8840, including abatement
costs, as permitted by division (D) of this section.
(KRS 65.8840(8))
   (D)   (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for all civil
fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of KRS 65.8840, including abatement
costs. The affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to KRS 65.8840, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other liens, except
state, county, Jessamine County Schools, and city taxes, except as provided in
KRS 65.8840(10). The city shall possess the lien for ten years following the
date of the final, nonappealable order of a code enforcement board or final
judgment of the court. The lien may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
(KRS 65.8840(9))
      (2)   The lien provided in division (D)(1) of this section shall not take
precedence or priority over a previously recorded lien if:
         (a)   The city failed to provide the lien holder a copy of the
determination in accordance with division (C) of this section; or
         (b)   The lien holder received a copy of the determination as required
by division (C) of this section, and the lien holder corrected the violations
or paid all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees
incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of KRS 65.8840,
including abatement costs.
(KRS 65.8840(10))
      (3)   In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized by law,
the owner of a premises upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this
section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all
civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges, fees, and abatement
costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the KRS
65.8840. The city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the
same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed. The failure of the
city to comply with division (C) of this section, and the failure of a lien to
take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in division (D)(2) of
this section, shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the city has
against the owner of the premises.
(KRS 65.8840(11))
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 93.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
WEEDS AND GRASS
§ 93.15 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, poison
ivy, poison oak or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract
of land within the city are hereby declared to be a nuisance; and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building or lot to permit
any weeds, grass or plants, other than crops, trees, bushes, flowers or
ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding eight inches anywhere on said
lot, including those portions thereof abutting any street, road, alley or other
thoroughfare, and in the event such lot is crossed by a sidewalk, ditch,
pathway, private roadway, fence, or other natural or human-made boundary or
divider, including those portions thereof between such boundaries or divider
and the edge of the thoroughfare; any such weeds, grass or plants exceeding
such height are hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city’s Police Department and the City
Clerk or other responsible officer designated by the City Council and
authorized by ordinance to serve or cause to be served a notice upon either the
owner or occupant of any property on which there is kept or maintained any
nuisance in violation of the provisions of this subchapter. Such notices shall
describe the nuisance so maintained and shall demand abatement of such nuisance
within five days for all violations.
   (B)   The notice shall also include all of the following:
      (1)   A statement to the effect that if the nuisance is not remedied
within the prescribed time, the city may elect to proceed to abate the
nuisance;
      (2)   An estimate as to the value of the labor and materials necessary to
remedy the situation;
      (3)   A statement to the effect that the cost of abatement constitutes a
lien against the property in favor of the city;
      (4)   A statement to the effect that after the city has abated the
nuisance, the City Clerk, or other responsible officer designated by the City
Council, will send a bill for the cost of the abatement, to include an
administrative cost, to the property owner and occupant and, if the bill is not
paid within ten days following the mailing of the bill, that a notice of lien
claimed for the cost of the abatement will be placed against the property; and/
or
      (5)   A statement to the effect that if the city chooses it may take any
additional legal action available to it in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013)
§ 93.17 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Notice shall be personally served upon the owners or occupants or it shall
be mailed to the last known address of the owner of the property as it appears
on the current tax assessment role. If the owner of the property cannot be
ascertained from the tax rolls in the exercise of due diligence, the City
Clerk, or other responsible officer designated by the City Council, shall make
an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of such notice upon such owners
may be made by publication in the Jessamine Journal, which is a newspaper of
general circulation for two consecutive weeks. A copy of such notice shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the notice.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013)
§ 93.18 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant so served does not abate the nuisance within
five days for all violations contained in the notice, the city may proceed to
abate the nuisance without further notice to the owner and/or occupant. The
city shall keep an accounting of the expenses of the abatement, and such
expense, including an administrative fee, shall be charged to and paid by said
owner and/or occupant. The City Council hereby authorizes the City Clerk, or
other responsible officer designated by the Council, to pay for the cutting,
mowing and/or removal of any nuisance or to order the removal on behalf of the
city.
   (B)   The five-day period provided for in this subchapter shall be deemed to
commence as follows:
      (1)   Where notice is personally served;
      (2)   Where notice is by registered mail; or
      (3)   Where notice is by publication and posting upon the property, with
the second date of publication beginning this time period.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013)
§ 93.19 LIEN.
   The City Council shall have a valid lien against the property for its costs
actually incurred in abating the nuisance. This lien shall be evidenced by a
notice of lien claimed, filed in the County Clerk’s office, which notice shall
include the affidavit of the City Clerk or other responsible officer designated
by the City Council. It shall set forth the legal description of the property
affected, the amount of the city’s cost of the abatement, and that the notice
provisions of this subchapter were complied with before abatement. The City
Clerk or other responsible officer designated by the City Council shall bill
the property owner or occupant of such premises at least once following the
abatement, and no notice of lien claimed shall be filed against the property
until seven days have elapsed since the bill is sent and no full payment has
been received by the city. A copy of the notice of lien claimed shall be mailed
to the owner of the property, or published in the Jessamine Journal, a
newspaper of general circulation, as required by statute, where the owner of
the property cannot be ascertained. However, the failure of the Clerk to record
such notice of lien claimed or the failure to mail the owner a copy of such
notice or publish same, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice
shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for such charges as are
provided for herein. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of
its recording and shall bear interest at 12% per annum thereafter until paid in
full.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013)
§ 93.20 PROPERTY TO BE SOLD.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges shall be
sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges of abatement including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees and court costs as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the city.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013)
§ 93.21 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court of competent jurisdiction
over such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid
30 days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
93.01 through
93.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500
for each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
93.15 through
93.21 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine
not exceeding $500 and not less than $10, or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation
of any provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.21 of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense,
unless otherwise provided in §§
93.15 through
93.21 of this chapter.
(Ord. 647-12, passed 3-4-2013)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Animals running at large
   
94.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
94.04   Torture of dogs or cats
   
94.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
94.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
94.07   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
94.08   Farm animals
   
94.09   Dangerous wildlife
   
94.10   Nuisance dogs or cats
   
94.11   Chickens
   
94.12   Bees
Dogs
   
94.25   Definitions
   
94.26   License required
   
94.27   Registration and issuance of license
   
94.28   License tag to be attached to dog
   
94.29   Dogs running at large
   
94.30   Noise disturbance
   
94.31   Impoundment
   
94.32   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
94.33   Pit bulls
   
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 94.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
94.04
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 94.04 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
TORTURE means the intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or injury, motivated by an intent to increase or prolong the pain of the
animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (D)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (E)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dog or cat, see KRS 525.135
§ 94.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 94.08 FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to keep pigpens, on
any real property located within the city limits, regardless of the size or
zoning of the land, except on that property which is zoned agricultural.
   (B)   The keeping or harboring of all other livestock (as defined below)
within the city shall be specifically prohibited on any lot, tract or parcel of
land unless at least two acres of land is dedicated for that specific purpose
per animal. Any lot or tract of land larger than 50 acres in size shall be
specifically exempted from this section.
   (C)   The above livestock provisions shall be subject to all of the
following.
      (1)   All livestock, poultry and goats shall be confined to the property
by proper fencing.
      (2)   Livestock, poultry and goats shall not be permitted to go on any
property of another, unless done with the owner of that land’s permission and
while under the direct control of the livestock owner.
      (3)   Livestock may be on the streets of the city only if any animal
waste produced is promptly and thoroughly removed. Poultry and goats are never
permitted to be on the streets of the City of Wilmore.
      (4)   Animal waste is to be managed promptly and thoroughly on the animal
lot.
      (5)   Appropriate cover for all animals is to be easily accessible by the
animal(s).
      (6)   For purposes of this section, the word LIVESTOCK shall include all
farm animals, with the exception of poultry and goats, and including, but not
limited to, cattle, buffalo, sheep, horses, llamas, donkeys and mules. No
roosters or male goats may be kept at any time within the city. A maximum of
two female goats are permitted per residence. Poultry, excluding roosters, may
be permitted so long as the presence of the poultry does not endanger the
health, safety, peace, quiet, comfort, enjoyment or otherwise become a public
nuisance to nearby residents.
      (7)   Current owners of livestock within the city limits will have 12
months from the date of final adoption and publication to come into compliance
with all the above.
(Ord. 636-11, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 DANGEROUS WILDLIFE.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to keep or hold
dangerous wildlife, as identified by the commonwealth’s Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources, on any real property located within the city limits.
   (B)   Any wildlife kept or held in violation of this section shall be seized
and impounded by the city’s Police Department or, at its request, the
commonwealth’s Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources, and shall be confined
in an appropriate place, at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 623-10, passed 11- -2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 NUISANCE DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to house or keep
under his or her control, anywhere in the city limits, any dog(s) or cat(s),
either as a pet or for any other purpose, which causes a general inconvenience
or annoyance to persons in his or her immediate neighborhood. Acts of such
general annoyance shall include, but not be limited to, loud and continual
barking, whining and the general omission of continuous noises that can be
easily overheard by surrounding neighbors or the emission of objectionable
odors which are offensive to surrounding neighbors.
   (B)   It shall also be the responsibility of each owner of any dog or cat,
living within the city limits, to keep a collar and metal tag on the animal at
all times and the tag shall include the name and phone number of the owner.
(Ord. 622-10, passed 11- -2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 CHICKENS.
   No person shall own, harbor, or keep within the city a hen chicken unless a
valid license for such chicken has been obtained pursuant to the provisions
stated herein.
   (A)   License.
      (1)   Licenses shall be obtained annually and expire each April 1.
      (2)   License application fees are due upon submittal of the license
application. The fee will be established by ordinance.
      (3)   The city may deny or revoke any license application or renewal if
it deems the applicant:
         (a)   Unable or unwilling to fulfill the provisions stated herein;
         (b)   Failing to comply with the provisions of this section;
         (c)   Submitting inaccurate or incomplete license information;
         (d)   Failing to meet the conditions of the license;
         (e)   Creating a nuisance; or
         (f)   If the public health and safety would be unreasonably endangered
by the granting or renewing of such license.
      (4)   The city may inspect the licensed property at any time to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
      (2)   No more than six chickens shall be kept on any one licensed
premises.
      (3)   Chickens must be confined on the licensed premises at all times, in
a chicken coop or chicken run, and may not be kept in any part of the principal
dwelling, garage, front yard or side yard.
   (4)   The butchering of chickens is prohibited.
      (5)   All chicken grains and feed must be stored in a rodent-proof
container.
      (6)   The use of chickens for cockfighting is prohibited.
   (C)   Coop and run.
      (1)   All chickens shall be provided access to both a coop and run.
      (2)   All fencing and electrical work associated with the chicken coop or
run shall be consistent with the Building and Zoning Codes and all appropriate
permits and licenses shall be obtained therefor.
      (3)   Any chicken coop or run shall be set back at least ten feet from
the principal dwelling, 50 feet from principal dwellings on adjacent lots and
ten feet from the property line. The coop and run shall be located closer to
the principal dwelling of the licensed property than to any principal dwelling
on adjacent properties.
      (4)   Any coop or run shall be set back at least 25 feet from the
following features:
         (a)   A delineated wetland edge; and
         (b)   The top of a bank of a pond, filtration basin or infiltration
basin.
      (5)   Chicken coops shall have a maximum footprint area of ten square
feet per chicken and a minimum footprint area of five square feet per chicken.
      (6)   Chicken runs shall have a maximum footprint area of 20 square feet
per chicken and a minimum footprint area of ten square feet per chicken.
      (7)   The coop shall be elevated a minimum of 12 inches above ground and
may not exceed a height of six feet as measured from the ground.
      (8)   No coop or run shall be located in any form of easement or right-
of-way.
      (9)   The coop and run shall be completely enclosed and rodent-proof.
      (10)   The coop shall provide adequate protection from the elements and
be winterized.
      (11)   Once the owner is finished raising chickens, the coop and run must
be removed from the property.
   (D)   Private restrictions and covenants on property. Notwithstanding the
issuance of a license by the city, private restrictions or covenants on the use
of property shall remain enforceable. Private restrictions include, but are not
limited to, deed restrictions, condominium master deed restrictions,
neighborhood association by-laws and covenant declarations. A license issued to
a person whose premises are subject to private restrictions and/or covenants
that prohibit the keeping of chickens is void. The interpretation and
enforcement of the private restrictions is the sole responsibility of the
private parties involved.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 BEES.
   (A)   The keeping of bees is permitted on single-family lots and Jessamine
County Schools and city-owned properties, and is prohibited at all other
locations.
   (B)   Each beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient source of water is
available within ten feet of each colony at all times that the colonies remain
active outside the hive.
   (C)   Bee hives shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from all property
lines, as measured from the nearest point of the hive to the property line.
   (D)   Exception: the minimum hive setback may be reduced to ten feet from a
property line when a six-foot high flyway barrier is installed between the hive
and property line. The flyway barrier may be a wall or solid fence and shall
continue parallel to the lot line for ten feet in either direction from the
hive, or contain the hive or hives in an enclosure at least six feet in height.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
DOGS
§ 94.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 94.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
94.27 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Running at large and trespassing.
      (1)   Prohibited generally.
         (a)   Running at large. No owner of any livestock or proud bitch shall
permit the same to run at large upon any street, alley or commons of the city.
         (b)   Trespassing. No owner or keeper of any livestock shall permit or
suffer any such animal to enter or trespass upon the enclosed premises of any
person within the city without permission.
      (2)   Owners to restrain dogs. Dogs which are kept in the city shall be
kept within the confines of their residence property unless the owner(s)
control(s) the animal(s) with a leash or other similar device at all times when
the animal(s) are permitted to leave the residence property by the owner(s).
      (3)   Police to impound animals in violation, ascertain owner. It shall
be the duty of any police officer to take possession of any animal found in
violation of this section and confine it in the pound.
   (B)   Dangerous dogs.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. Including any individual dog declared by a court to be a
vicious dog or:
            1.   Any dog which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise
attacks a human being without provocation on public or private property;
            2.   Any dog which has previously attacked or bitten a human being
other than under circumstances deemed justifiable under definition of division
5. below;
            3.   Any dog certified by a doctor of veterinary medicine, after
observation thereof; as posing a danger to human life or property if not kept
in the manner required by this division (B) on the basis of reasonable medical
probability;
            4.   Any dog which has been trained as an attack or guard dog,
except such dogs which are employed by any law enforcement department within
the commonwealth; or
            5.   Exceptions: an animal shall not be deemed dangerous or vicious
solely because:
               a.   It bites or attacks:
                  i.   Anyone assaulting its owner; or
                  ii.   Any person who has tormented or abused it.
               b.   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a
person upon its owner or any other person; or
               c.   It is protecting or defending its young.
      (2)   Charging owner/keeper with harboring a dangerous dog. Any person
who identifies a “dangerous dog”, as defined in division (B)(1) above, or
anyone for such person, may make a complaint before the District Court,
charging the owner or keeper of such dog with harboring a dangerous dog. A copy
of such complaint shall be served upon the person so charged in the same manner
and subject to the laws regulating the service of summons in civil actions
directing that person to appear for a hearing of such complaint at a time fixed
herein. If such person fails to appear at the time fixed, or if upon a hearing
of the parties and their witnesses, the court finds the person so charged is
the owner or keeper of the dog in question, and that the dog is established by
the evidence to within the definitions of a dangerous dog set forth herein, the
court shall order said owner to henceforth keep such dog securely confined by
enclosed pen of sufficient strength to securely restrain the dog from being a
public threat with such pen to comply with the section set out below or the
court may order the dog to be destroyed. The owner or keeper of the dangerous
dog may voluntarily destroy the dog or consent in writing to its destruction.
      (3)   Action for damages and confinement of a dangerous or vicious dog.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the
city a dog determined by court order to be a dangerous dog under the city
ordinance or a vicious dog under state statutes, unless it is at all times kept
on the keeper/owner(s) or harborer’s property securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked outdoor pen, or shelter suitable to prevent the
entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Such pen
or structure must have minimum dimensions of five feet by ten feet and must
have secure sides and a secure top. If it has no concrete, cement or asphalt
bottom, the sides must be imbedded into the ground no less than two feet. The
enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for the dog. A
dangerous or vicious dog shall be transported to or from the indoors and
securely enclosed and locked outdoor pen or shelter only if such dog is muzzled
and restrained by a suitable chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length
and made in a manner that it will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration, but will prevent the dog from biting any person.
            1.   Dangerous or vicious dogs shall be permitted off the owner’s
or harborer’s property only if such dogs are muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length and under the
control of a responsible adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will
not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, but
must prevent the dog from biting any person or animal.
            2.   When any dog is required by this division (B) to be confined,
it shall also be required that a conspicuous notice be posted at the place of
confinement of such a nature as to warn the public of the nature of the dog
therein confined.
            3.   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to own,
harbor or handle a dangerous or vicious dog.
         (b)   If any dangerous or vicious dog shall, when unprovoked, kill or
wound or assist in killing or wounding any domestic animal belonging to or in
the possession of any person or shall, when unprovoked, attack, assault, bite
or otherwise injure any human being or assist in attacking, assaulting, biting
or otherwise injuring any human being while out of the enclosure of the owner,
keeper and/or harborer of the dangerous or vicious dog, or while otherwise off
the property of the owner, keeper and/or harborer, whether or not the dangerous
or vicious dog was on a leash and securely muzzled or whether the dangerous or
vicious dog escaped without fault of the owner or keeper, the owner, keeper
and/or harborer of the dog shall be liable to the person damaged, for all
damage sustained to be recovered in a civil action with recovery for cost of
the suit included.
      (4)   Insurance required. Owners of dangerous or vicious dogs must,
within 30 days of the effective date of this division (B), provide proof to the
City Clerk of public liability insurance in the amount of at least $50,000,
insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous or
vicious dog.
      (5)   Dog fighting; harboring. No person shall own/keep or harbor any dog
for the purpose of dog fighting, or train, torment, badger, bait or use any dog
for the purpose of causing or encouraging said dog to commit unprovoked attacks
upon human beings or domestic animals. No person shall possess with intent to
sell, or offer for sale, breed or buy or attempt to buy within the city any
dangerous or vicious dog(s).
      (6)   Impoundment of dangerous dog. Any dog which bites a human being
will be confiscated and placed in the county’s Dog Pound until the Court has
reached a final disposition on the charge of harboring a dangerous or vicious
dog. The impoundment is not to be less than a period of ten days as required by
KRS 258.085; unless the keeper/owner and/or harborer have an up-to-date
document showing that the dog has been vaccinated against rabies and are able
to confine the dog as set out in division (A) above.
(Ord. 506-01, passed 2-19-2001) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 94.32 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 94.33 PIT BULLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within
the corporate limits of the city any pit bull dog; provided that, pit bull dogs
registered with the city on the date of publication of this section may be kept
within the city subject to the standards and requirements set forth in detail
in this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a PIT BULL DOG is defined to mean:
      (1)   The bull terrier breed of dog;
      (2)   Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog;
      (3)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dog;
      (4)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog;
      (5)   Dogs of mixed breed or of other breed or other breeds than above
listed which breed or mixed breed is known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit
bull terriers; and
      (6)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of bull terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier,
American pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire terrier; any other breed
commonly known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers; or a
combination of any of these breeds.
   (C)   The provisions of this section as set out above are not applicable to
owners, keepers or harborers of pit bull dogs registered with the city as of 1-
18-1988, the effective date of this section. The keeping of such dogs, however,
shall be subject to the following standards.
      (1)   Leash and muzzle.
         (a)   No person shall permit a registered pit bull dog to go outside
its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no longer
than four feet in length. No person shall permit a pit bull dog to be kept on a
chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person is
in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to inanimate
objects such as trees, posts, buildings and the like.
         (b)   In addition, all pit bull dogs on a leash outside the animal’s
kennel must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from
biting persons or other animals.
      (2)   Confinement. All registered pit bull dogs shall be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except
when leashed and muzzled as about provided. Such pen, kennel or structure must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures used
to confine registered pit bull dogs must be locked with a key or combination
lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structure must have a
secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen
must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet. All structures erected to
house pit bull dogs must comply with all zoning and building regulations of the
city. All such structures must be adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in
a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Confinement indoors. No pit bull dog may be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a
house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen
doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
      (4)   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull dogs
within the city shall within ten days of the effective date of this section
display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the
public using the words “Beware of Dog”. In addition, a similar sign is required
to be posted on the kennel or pen or such animal.
      (5)   Insurance. All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull
dogs must within ten days of the effective date of this section provide proof
to the City Clerk of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of
$50,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for damage to
property owned by any persons which may result from the ownership, keeping or
maintenance of such animal. Such insurance policy shall provide that no
cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten days’ written notice if
first given to the City Clerk.
Animals   47
      (6)   Identification photographs. All owners, keepers or harborers of
registered pit bulls must within ten days of the effective date of this
ordinance provide to the City Clerk two color photographs of the registered
animal clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
      (7)   Reporting requirements. All owners, keepers or harborers of
registered pit bull dogs must within ten days of the incident, report the
following information in writing to the City Clerk as required hereinafter:
         (a)   The removal from the city or death of a registered pit bull dog;
         (b)   The birth of offspring of a registered pit bull dog; and
         (c)   The new address of a registered pit bull dog owner should the
owner move within the corporate city limits.
      (8)   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited. No person shall sell,
barter or in any other way dispose of a pit bull dog registered with the city
to any person within the city unless the recipient person resides permanently
in the same household and on the same premises as the registered owner of such
dog; provided that, the registered owner of a pit bull dog may sell or
otherwise dispose of a registered dog or the offspring of such dog to persons
who do not reside within the city.
      (9)   Animals born of registered dogs. All offspring born or pit bull
dogs registered with the city must be removed from the city within six weeks of
the birth of such animal.
      (10)   Irrebuttable presumptions. There shall be an irrebuttable
presumption that any dog registered with the city as a pit bull dog or any of
those breeds prohibited by division (B)(7) above is in fact a dog subject to
the requirements of this section.
      (11)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a pit bull dog registered with the city to fail to comply with the
requirements and conditions set forth in this division (B). Any dog found to be
the subject of a violation of this section shall be subject to immediate
seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will result in the
revocation of the license of such animal resulting in the immediate removal of
the animal from the city.
(Ord. 310-88, passed 1-8-1988) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
94.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
94.04  shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first offense if the
dog or cat suffers physical injury as a result of the torture.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
94.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (E)   The violation of §
94.08 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a fine in the amount of
$25, and each day such violation shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense for this purpose.
   (F)   The violation of §
94.09 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a fine in the amount of at
least $200 and not more than $500, plus the costs associated with the seizure
and confinement of the wildlife, and each day such violation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense for this purpose.
   (G)   The violation of §
94.10 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a fine in the amount of
$10, and each day such violation shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense for this purpose.
   (H)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
94.29 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $200, nor more than $500, for each offense.
   (I)   Any person who violates any of the positions of §
94.33 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, but no more than $100.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 310-88, passed 1-18-1988; Ord. 506-01, passed 2-19-2001; Ord. 622-10,
passed 11- -2010; Ord. 623-10, passed 11- -2010; Ord. 636-11, passed 10-3-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dog or cat, see KRS 525.135
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
95.01   Bonfires and other burning
   
95.02   Fire lanes
   
95.03   Public Safety Codes
   
95.04   Interference with firefighters and equipment
   
95.05   Protection from fire
   
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 BONFIRES AND OTHER BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to kindle or maintain a bonfire, or to burn
trash, leaves, garbage or any other debris, within the city limits, without the
specific written permission of the Mayor, or his or her representative from
City Hall.
   (B)   It is specifically understood, however, that this section is designed
to prohibit the above activities from the individual citizens and businesses in
the city and should not, in any way, be construed as to prohibit any employee
or agent of the city from carrying out such burning operations as may be
necessary for the efficient running of said city.
(Ord. 262-83, passed 8-15-1983) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 FIRE LANES.
   Portions of the following named streets are designated as fire lanes:
   (A)   Broadhurst Drive, north a distance of 614 feet, from East College
Street, fire lane to be on the east side of street;
   (B)   Gail Morrison Drive, west a distance of 136 feet, from Broadhurst
Drive, fire lane to be on the south side of street; and
   (C)   East Morrison Street, west a distance of 428 feet, from Broadhurst
Drive, fire lane to be on north side of street.
(Ord. 250-81, passed 7-20-1981)
§ 95.03 PUBLIC SAFETY CODES.
   (A)   The most current edition of the Standards of Safety contained in 815
KAR 10:060, and all codes a part thereof, as promulgated by the office of the
state’s Fire Marshal of the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction
Insurance of the commonwealth, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk, as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall, at all times, keep in his or her possession for
reference a copy of the said most current edition of the Standards of Safety.
(Ord. 224-78, passed 2-20-1978)
§ 95.04 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with
firefighters or fire equipment during any fire or fire drill in the city.
   (B)   Automobiles shall not be driven or parked closer than approximately
than 150 feet from the location of a fire plug, which is being used by the Fire
Department during any fire in the city.
(Ord. 113, passed 10-3-1947) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 PROTECTION FROM FIRE.
   (A)   After the passage and publication of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct or materially
alter any residence, building or structure of any kind within the limits,
without first obtaining a building permit from the City Council so to do.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to erect construct, build or
materially alter a residence or other building in the city shall make
application for a permit and file same with the City Clerk in which application
shall be clearly stated the location of the lot on which the said building is
to be erected, constructed, built or materially altered; the kind of material
to be used in the walls, foundation and roof; the size and dimension of said
building and the approximate cost thereof. There shall be filed with said
application a sketch or drawing showing the general design and its location on
said lot with the distance from the street or public way on which it is to be
built. The City Clerk shall present such application to the City Council at its
next meeting for consideration.
   (C)   (1)   The Council may consider said application or refer same to a
committee of its members for further investigation and report of the
advisability of granting or rejecting said permit. The Council and committee
shall take into consideration fire hazard or other objections that may be made
for the erection, construction or alteration of said building and its
adaptability to the use for which it is intended. If the building does not
conform to standards of other buildings in the same block or, if it shall
create a fire hazard or other hazard to the immediate community, action by the
Council on said application may be deferred until the applicant shall modify
the plans of construction or alteration.
      (2)   If the plans and specifications of the proposed building or
alteration conform to the standards of other buildings in the same block and do
not, in the opinion of the investigation committee, create a fire or other
hazard to the immediate community, a permit may be granted.
   (D)   Such permit shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk
after approval by a majority of the Council. Such building shall be constructed
or altered according to the plans and specifications set up in the applications
for a permit.
(Ord. 88, passed 11-11-1948) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
95.04 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $25.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
95.05 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not less than $5, nor more than
$100; and, any building altered in violation of the provisions of §
95.05 of this chapter is hereby declared a nuisance and the city, in addition
to the penalty herein set out, shall have the right to remove the same at the
expense of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 88, passed 11-11-1938; Ord. 113, passed 10-3-1947)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE POLLUTION; NUISANCE RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Unlawful conduct
   
96.03   Standards for noise pollution; exemptions
   
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BONA FIDE FARMING OPERATION.  The operation and maintenance of a farm,
situated on five contiguous acres or more of land used for the production of
livestock, poultry, poultry products, dairy, dairy products, or horticulture
products, or for the growing of crops such as, but not limited to, tobacco,
corn, soybeans and wheat.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION ACTIVITY.  The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, structure or roadway, for
which all necessary and proper governmental permits have been obtained.
   INTENSITY.  The magnitude and strength of noise.
   NOISE.  The intensity, frequency, duration and character of sound or sounds
from a source or sources.
   PARKING LOTS. Any off-street parking facility for public use, and the
approaches to same, whether publicly or privately owned, including but not be
limited to: parks, shopping centers, centers of higher education, restaurants,
entertainment centers, gas stations, banking or financial institutions, whether
publicly or privately owned, operated or controlled.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or any private entity of any nature.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Capable of being distinctly heard by a person with normal
hearing.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, highway, lane or
court, including the berm, shoulder or any public property adjacent thereto,
bridge, viaduct, trestle and the approaches to them, or sidewalk.
   UNREASONABLE PERIOD OF TIME. A period of time in excess of that necessary to
accomplish:
      (1)   A danger warning with a horn or other audible signaling device; or
      (2)   The preservation or protection of the property or the life, safety
or welfare of a person or persons by use of an audible signaling device.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD, HARSH OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.  Any manufactured noise plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from its point of origination or emanation.
   VEHICLE. Any machine or device in, on or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn on any right-of-way or parking lot.
(Ord. 5-2018, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 96.02 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, continue,
or cause to be made or continued, any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive
noise that either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others, unless the making and continuing of the
noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or the life,
health or safety of a person or persons.
   (B)   The following acts are hereby declared to be unreasonably loud, harsh
or excessive noises in violation of this chapter, but their enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or other such audible signaling device on
any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any right-of-way, parking lot or
other public place, except as a danger warning, for an unreasonable period of
time;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, stereo or other machine or
device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in such a
manner as to create an unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise that
disturbs the peace, quiet or comfort of others;
      (3)   The use or operation of, or allowing the use or operation of, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device
for producing or reproducing sound in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise that disturbs the peace, quiet and
comfort of others by creating or allowing a louder volume than is necessary for
the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are voluntarily in the
room, chamber or vehicle in which any above-described machine, device or
musical instrument is located;
      (4)   The use or operation of any vehicle in such manner as to produce
any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise, or to discharge into the open
air the exhaust of any vehicle except through a muffler or other device that
will effectively prevent any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noises
therefrom.
(Ord. 5-2018, passed 11-19-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 STANDARDS FOR NOISE POLLUTION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Standards. The standards to be considered in determining whether a
violation of this chapter exists include, but are not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   The volume and intensity of background noise, if any;
      (4)   The proximity of the noise to a residential area or a place of
public accommodation, such as a hotel, motel, inn, campground and the like,
health care facilities, churches or schools;
      (5)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
      (6)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
      (7)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (8)   The duration of the noise;
      (9)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from
this chapter:
      (1)   Noises originating or emanating from safety signals, warning
devices and emergency pressure relief valves;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement training facilities;
      (3)   Noises resulting from construction or demolition activity, provided
such activity takes place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Noises related to the use of farm machinery or other machinery for
agricultural purposes in bona fide farming operations;
      (5)   Noises relating to the use of lawn mowers or other machinery for
landscaping purposes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
      (6)   Noises resulting from any and all transportation, flood control,
utility company maintenance and construction operations at any time on rights-
of-way; and noises from situations that may occur on private real property,
including in parking lots, deemed necessary to serve the best interest of the
public and to protect the public’s health and well-being, including, but not
limited to, street or hard surface sweeping or cleaning, debris and limb
removal, removal of downed wires, restoring electrical service, repairing
traffic signals, unplugging sewers, snow removal, house moving, vacuuming catch
basins, removal of damaged poles and vehicles, repair of water hydrants and
mains, gas lines, oil lines, and sewers;
      (7)   Noises from activities conducted on public parks or playgrounds and
public or private school grounds, including, but not limited to, school
athletic and school entertainment events;
      (8)   Noises from activities conducted on property owned or operated by
civic, charitable or religious organizations, including, but not limited to,
neighborhood or church festivals and entertainment events;
      (9)   Noises from activities at parades, provided a valid parade permit
has been obtained from the city;
      (10)   Noises from activities at fireworks displays, provided all
necessary permits have been obtained;
      (11)   Noises from activities conducted on rights-of-way of the city,
including, but not limited to, festivals and entertainment events, provided all
necessary permits have been obtained; and
      (12)   Noises relating to the collection of refuse between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 5-2018, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be classified as a violation and
shall be enforced by the city’s Police Department or other law enforcement
agency with authority to act.
   (B)   Any person violating any section of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $250. Each separate occurrence or each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5-2018, passed 11-19-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
111.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES AND FEES
   
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
   
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
   
114.   WRECKER SERVICES; VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITIES
   
115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
   
116.   CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   Special vendor fees
   
110.11   Real estate
   
110.12   Posting bills, advertisements and the like
   
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk in writing upon forms to be furnished
by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the city and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk
and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the license is not
issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
 § 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted,
in a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Council at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Council may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee, as the case may be,
shall within three business days have the right to appeal to the City Council
from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a hearing,
which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and all members of the City Council of the time and place of
the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A majority of the City
Councilmembers members shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The
appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a
majority of the members of the Council present at the meeting declare in favor
of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case
may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.10 SPECIAL VENDOR FEES.
   The city’s Police Department is empowered to collect any and all special
vendor fees which may be assessed by the city beginning in 1995 and continuing
thereafter for each year until specifically ordered to the contrary by the City
Council.
(Ord. 426-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 110.11 REAL ESTATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any city
property in the form of real estate for any purpose whatsoever, except by
application to the Council for permission.
(Ord. 103B, passed 9-1-1944) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 POSTING BILLS, ADVERTISEMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons, organizations
or companies to post any bills, posters or advertisements of any kind on any
telephone pole, electric power line pole or any place on the streets or in the
utility spaces along the street in the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to business persons or
merchants in the city who may desire to use the utility space in front of their
places of business to advertise their goods, merchandise and the like;
provided, such advertising by local business persons and merchants shall not
obstruct any street or sidewalk in the city.
(Ord. 90, passed 9-1-1939) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
110.11 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5 and not more than $10
for each offense.
(Ord. 103B, passed 9-1-1944)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   License fees, privilege license fees and inventory taxes
Occupational License and Net Profits
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Occupational license application required
   
111.17   Occupational license tax payment required
   
111.18   Apportionment
   
111.19   Employers to withhold
   
111.20   Payment of estimated tax quarterly
   
111.21   Returns required
   
111.22   Extensions
   
111.23   Refunds
   
111.24   Federal audit provisions
   
111.25   Administrative provisions
   
111.26   Information to remain confidential
   
111.27   Use of occupational license tax
   
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 LICENSE FEES, PRIVILEGE LICENSE FEES AND INVENTORY TAXES.
   (A)   A BUSINESS is defined as any operation by an individual or group of
individuals engaged in commercial trade for profit within the city. This
includes all operations defined above noting the business itself may or may not
be located within the city limits. This includes all business operations
designated as conditional use by the county’s Board of Adjustments.
   (B)   All businesses operating within the city limits shall pay a business
license fee for the privilege of operating said business. The fee for said
business shall be paid to the city on an annual basis and shall be due and
payable by January 31 in the year for which the fee is paid. Should a business
operating within the city limits fail to pay the herein stated business license
fee by January 31 of each year in which the fee is due, the owner or operator
thereof, shall be fined $5 per day for failure to pay same and each day shall
be a separate offense up to double the amount of the business license fee.
Should a business begin operation within the city limits after January 31, the
business shall be required to pay a business license fee within 30 days upon
commencing operation of said business. Failure to pay the business license fee
within said time frame shall result in a fine of $5 per day and each day shall
be a separate offense up to double the amount of the business license fee.
Enforcement of this section shall be done through the City Council and the City
Clerk and City Treasurer.
   (C)   The business license fee for all businesses operating within the city
limits shall be in the amount of $50. Any business commencing operation after
July 1 shall pay a business license fee in the amount of $25.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall furnish a list of the businesses who have not
paid the business license fee for that year to the City Council at its first
official meeting in the month of February. The City Council may direct the City
Clerk to notify in writing any business operating within the city who has
failed to pay the business license fee for that year and advise them of the
penalty stated in division (B) above. General building contractors must pay the
business license fee for the designated year before any tap fees from that
contractor are accepted. At the time any tap fees are paid to the city by a
general building contractor, that contractor must furnish to the city a list of
all other contractors participating on that particular building project. The
city shall bill the associated contractors in the amount of the business
license fee if the associated contractor has not paid a business license fee
for that designated year.
   (E)   All business license fees referred to in this section and all business
fees collected from the annual Ichthus festival shall have their own collective
revenue and expense account numbers within the General Fund. Funds in this
account are to be dispersed toward projects associated with the city’s
Community Development Project. All disbursements must be approved by a majority
vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 460-97, passed 9-15-1997)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE AND NET PROFITS
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of boards of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic, or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes, or receipts of such unit, group, or association inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Wilmore, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Includes any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Includes any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity's
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF FEDERAL AUDIT. The Revenue Agent's report or other
documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2003, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2003, that would
otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class with the authority to
levy net profits or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT.  
      (1)   In the case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue
only within the city, means net profit as defined in this section.
      (2)   In the case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue
both within and without the city, means net profit as defined in this section
and as apportioned in §
111.18 of this code.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net profit is computed.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.16 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the City of
Wilmore shall be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from
the City of Wilmore before the commencement of business or in the event of a
change of business status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any
changes in address, the cessation of business, or any other changes which
render the information supplied to the city in the license application
inaccurate.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.17 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by 2% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident or
nonresident business entity.
   (B)   Each business entity operating within the boundaries of the City of
Wilmore shall apply to the City of Wilmore each year for a business license for
the privilege of operating said business. The cost of said license shall be $50
and shall be in addition to the 2% of net profit tax referenced in division (A)
of this section. This application fee shall be due not later than January 31 of
each year. On February 1 a $25 late penalty fee will be added to the business
license fee. If temporarily engaged in business in the city or if starting a
new business, this minimum license fee shall be paid prior to starting any
business activity. Any new business commencing operation after July 1 of each
calendar year shall pay a minimum license fee in the amount of $25.
   (C)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, or trust,
banking, and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages; or
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of, and doing
business in, the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.18 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, net profit shall
be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual's
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property, or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity's activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city, or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity's business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity's business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer's reported percentages under this division,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is passed through to the owners are subject to this subchapter. The
occupational license tax imposed in this subchapter is assessed against income
before it is passed through these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this subchapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by
the federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting
required for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.19 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
111.17 of this code.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this subchapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year, complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city, a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for,
or pay over the tax imposed by this subchapter at the time that the taxes
imposed by this subchapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
111.17 of this code shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases
where the employer does not withhold the tax levied under this subchapter from
the employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with
the city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.20 PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED TAX QUARTERLY.
   (A)   Every business entity, other than a sole proprietorship, subject to
taxation under this subchapter, shall make quarterly estimated tax payments on
or before the fifteenth day of the fourth, sixth, ninth, and twelfth month of
each taxable year if the tax liability for the taxable year exceeds $5,000.
   (B)   The quarterly estimated tax payments required under division (A) of
this section shall be based on the lesser of:
      (1)   22.5% of the current taxable year tax liability;
      (2)   25% of the preceding full year taxable year tax liability; or
      (3)   25% of the average tax liability for the three preceding full year
taxable years' tax liabilities if the tax liability for any of the three
preceding full taxable years exceeded $20,000.
   (C)   (1)   Any business entity that fails to submit the minimum quarterly
payment required under division (B) of this section by the due date for the
quarterly payment shall pay an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the amount of the quarterly payment required under division (B) of this section
from the earlier of:
         (a)   The due date for the quarterly payment until the time when the
aggregate quarterly payments submitted for the taxable year equal the minimum
aggregate payments due under divison (B) of this section; or
         (b)   The due date of the annual return.
      (2)   A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business
entity's first full or partial taxable year of doing business in the city or
any first taxable year in which a business entity's tax liability exceeds
$5,000.
   (E)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated tax may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.21 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this subchapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   Every business entity making payments of $600 or more to persons other
than employees for services performed within the city are responsible for
maintaining the records of those payments and for completing IRS Form 1099 on
or before February 28 of the year following the close of the calendar year in
which such compensation was paid. Persons or business entities not required to
remit a form 1099 remain liable to the city to remit equivalent information for
any compensation made to persons or business entities that are not employees.
   (E)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (F)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.22 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.23 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
111.19 of this code, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the
extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two years from the date the
overpayment was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   In the case where the tax computed under the provisions of this
subchapter is less than the amount which has been declared and paid as
estimated tax for the same taxable year, a refund or credit, if a credit is
requested, shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (D)   (1)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated tax in
excess of the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the
same taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated tax
determined to be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable
year or for any deficiency or nonpayment of tax for any previous taxable year;
      (2)   No refund shall be made of any estimated tax paid unless a complete
return is filed as required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.24 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division.
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division, or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this division, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing the
return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.25 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
may be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for
the filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is
the later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
111.23 of this code has been extended by an agreement between the business
entity and the city, the limitation contained in this division shall be
extended accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division or six
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division and division (A) of this section,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this subchapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.26 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax law or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.27 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be paid to the city and placed as follows:
   (A)   All proceeds raised from the $50 minimum license fee shall be
deposited to the General Fund of the City of Wilmore and shall have their own
collective revenue and expense account numbers within the General Fund.
   (B)   The revenue generated by the 2% payroll tax shall be utilized first
for the satisfaction of current debt service on all water and wastewater
revenue obligations of the City of Wilmore, including required reserves,
accruals, cost of operation and maintenance of the combined water and
wastewater system and any and all new commitments which may be entered into by
the city relative thereto, to the extent not satisfied from water and
wastewater revenues.
   (C)   On an annual basis, at the conclusion of the annual audit, the Auditor
for the City of Wilmore shall certify in writing to the Wilmore City Council
the amount of surplus, if any, in the account or fund described in the
preceding paragraph which is over and above all other costs set out above. This
surplus may then be transferred to the General Fund of the City of Wilmore, KY,
for general operating expenses.
   (D)   At that time and based upon the figures submitted by the Auditor for
the City of Wilmore, the Wilmore City Council may transfer all or a portion of
that designated surplus from the 2% payroll and net profits tax revenue to the
Wilmore General Fund.
(Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalty for §§
111.15 through
111.27 of this chapter.
      (1)   (a)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
            1.   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
            2.   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
         (b)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
      (2)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or
before the time prescribed under §
111.19 of this code may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the
tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this division shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however,
the penalty shall not be less than $25.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any
business entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to
12% per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid,
from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of
a month is counted as an entire month.
      (4)   Every tax imposed by this subchapter, and all increases, interest,
and penalties thereon, shall become from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
      (5)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due
under §
111.17 of this code and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in
divisions (1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section by civil action in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be
entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it
in enforcing any provision of this subchapter.
      (6)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any
business entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (7)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels,
or advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this subchapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (8)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this subchapter, or by the rules of the city
or by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
      (9)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.25 of this code by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer
information without authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not longer than six months, or both.
      (10)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.25 of this code by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 601-09, passed 6-1-2009; Ord. 10-17, passed 11-20-2017)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Annual license fee
   
112.02   Collection
   
112.03   Life insurance policies and other policies
   
112.04   Due date of fees
   
112.05   Categories and breakdown
   
112.06   Transmission of all collections
§ 112.01 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the calendar year 2021, and thereafter on a calendar year
basis.
(Ord. 674-15, passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 112.02 COLLECTION.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 8% of the first year’s premium actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 674-15, passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 112.03 LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES AND OTHER POLICIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 8% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of businesses to policyholders; however, any license fee
or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for
insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees
or death caused thereby under the provisions of Worker’s Compensation Act and
shall not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance
provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2).
(Ord. 674-15, passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 112.04 DUE DATE OF FEES.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 674-15, passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 112.05 CATEGORIES AND BREAKDOWN.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall, annually by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty/liability only;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health;
   (F)   Life; and
   (G)   All other risks.
(Ord. 674-15, passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 112.06 TRANSMISSION OF ALL COLLECTIONS.
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit a copy of this chapter and any
amendment thereto to the Commissioner of Insurance of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 674-15, passed 3-16-2015; Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-15-2021)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than 10 days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision
has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same
manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 114: WRECKER SERVICES; VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITIES
Section
   
114.01   Legislative findings
   
114.02   Title and purpose
   
114.03   Administration of facilities
   
114.04   Eligibility for inclusion on service lists
   
114.05   Removal of wrecked or disabled vehicles; preference calls
   
114.06   Removal of wrecked, abandoned or illegally parked vehicles; non-
preference calls
   
114.07   Removal of illegally parked, unoccupied vehicle
   
114.08   Enforcement
   
114.09   Promulgation of rules and regulations
§ 114.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   All facts, policies and objectives recited in the preamble of the ordinance
codified herein are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.02 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall henceforth be known as the “Wrecker Service and
Vehicle Storage Facility Ordinance”.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide the city’s Police Department
personnel with a safe, efficient and equitable system for the removal of
damaged, disabled, abandoned or illegally parked motor vehicles from city
streets. All applications, fees, lists, complaints or other written information
concerning the administration of this chapter shall be maintained and monitored
by the city’s Police Department, under the direction and supervision of the
Mayor. All requests by police personnel for wrecker and/or storage facility
services within the city, shall be administered through a Police Department
radio dispatcher as directed herein. All wrecker services and vehicle storage
facilities that meet the qualifications and requirements prescribed herein
below shall be eligible to provide municipal wrecker and/or vehicle storage
services.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.03 ADMINISTRATION OF FACILITIES.
   The city’s Police Department shall maintain and monitor a list from which it
shall administer wrecker and/or vehicle storage services.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.04 ELIGIBILITY FOR INCLUSION ON SERVICE LISTS.
   (A)   Wrecker service list. Any wrecker service business operating within
the city shall be eligible for inclusion on the wrecker service list; provided,
said business meets all of the following requirements and conditions.
      (1)   All wrecker services must submit a written application in form and
format approved by the city, pay an annual business license fee and must have a
valid business license issued by the city.
      (2)   The wrecker service must provide 24-hour service seven days per
week, and shall respond to all emergency calls within 20 minutes or less. In
addition, the wrecker service must have a local telephone number to handle
emergency calls on a 24-hour basis.
      (3)   (a)   The wrecker must have a minimum weight limit of one ton, be
equipped with a motor-driven wrench, wheel lifts and dollies, and otherwise
meet standard wrecker specifications as may hereafter be determined by the
Mayor from time to time.
         (b)   In addition, the wrecker must be equipped with one ABC fire
extinguisher, safety chains, dolly, ax, broom and shovel.
         (c)   The wrecker service is responsible for cleaning all debris from
streets and properly disposing of same when called to the scene of an accident,
and must have some type of material to absorb spillage of liquids from wrecked
vehicles onto city streets.
      (4)   The wrecker service must provide a copy of its I.D. card through
the commonwealth’s Department of Transportation, Division of Motor Carriers.
The name and K.Y.U. number must be permanently painted on wrecker vehicles.
Each wrecker service must be capable of towing imported vehicles not designed
to be towed by conventional methods.
      (5)   The wrecker service must impose a reasonable agreed upon charge for
towed or transported vehicle and shall furnish the city with a current list of
all charges for wrecker service, including basic tow and add-on charges.
Wrecker services are prohibited from charging more for services rendered
pursuant to this chapter than they would charge for identical services to
private customers. Wrecker services shall further notify the city of any
increase in wrecker service charges at least 30 days prior to the
implementation of those new charges.
      (6)   The wrecker service shall have personnel available during
reasonable business hours to provide information to the city and vehicle
owners, owner’s agent or representative concerning the transportation or
storage of towed motor vehicle.
      (7)   The wrecker service shall be responsible for all losses, theft or
damages to vehicles from the time they are towed until the vehicle is released
to the owner, a dealership, auto repair or storage facility.
      (8)   The wrecker service must furnish an adequate record system for all
motor vehicles and property towed and stored, and adequate storage for all
personal property removed therefrom. Said records shall contain information
including, but not limited to, a log indicating vehicle description (make,
model, VIN number, color and the like), license number, any personal property
in the vehicle, along with the date and time of towing and release.
      (9)   The wrecker service shall employ only those operators holding a
valid commonwealth operator’s license without conditions or restrictions that
would impair the driver’s ability to operate wrecker equipment.
      (10)   The wrecker service must provide the city with certificates of
insurance insuring said wrecker service against theft, vandalism, personal
injury, damages or other casualty losses in amounts and on such terms as are
prescribed by the commonwealth’s Department of Transportation. Said insurance
shall provide coverage for both the wrecker and the towed vehicle and said
wrecker service must provide the city with annual renewals of said insurance.
   (B)   Vehicle storage facility list.
      (1)   All authorized automobile storage facilities with the city shall be
entitled to compete for inclusion on the storage facility list that will
provide municipal storage service.
      (2)   The vehicle storage facility list shall be determined by the
following process.
         (a)   As soon as practicable after the adoption of this chapter, the
Mayor shall advertise and solicit competitive bid proposals for municipal
vehicle storage service, based on the specifications, terms and conditions that
best facilitate reliable vehicle storage service, and preserve and protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   At a minimum, specifications for competitive bid proposals shall
include payment of an annual business license fee and require all vehicle
storage facilities to comply with applicable zoning laws, regulations and other
industry standards, including storage experience and readiness.
            1.   Storage facilities must also provide:
               a.   Inside facility for storage of special care vehicles;
               b.   Security fence to protect evidence for future court
proceedings; and
               c.   Twenty-four-hour availability for police research.
            2.   The city reserves the right to accept one or more bids that
best promote its objectives, and further reserves the right to reject any and
all bids that do not meet the specifications, terms and conditions prescribed
therein.
      (3)   Inclusion of wrecker service and storage facilities on service
lists shall not be construed as an employment or contractual relationship
between the city and said business or facility, and the city assumes no
liability by virtue of this chapter for damages claimed by vehicle owners, or
any and all other persons who may present a claim for damages against the city
in connection with the towing, repair and/or storage of a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.05 REMOVAL OF WRECKED OR DISABLED VEHICLES; PREFERENCE CALLS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or lawful operator of a damaged or disabled vehicle
shall generally have the right to determine the wrecker service to be summoned
and the destination of said vehicle.
      (2)   The police officer in charge of the accident or disabled vehicle
scene shall honor the motor vehicle owner/operator’s preference and take
reasonable steps to carry out the notification of the appropriate wrecker
service, unless, in the opinion of the police officer, the request is either
contrary to accepted police practices or would create a risk to the general
public.
   (B)   If, in any case, the police officer believes that an alternative to
the owner/operator’s preference is necessary in order to protect the general
public or promote legitimate police matters, then the police officer shall act
in accordance with his or her training and skill by selecting an alternative
method of removal and/or site for storage.
   (C)   In any event, the police officer must record the relevant information
concerning the wrecker service and storage facility utilized in each incident.
   (D)   No owner, employee or agent for any wrecker service summoned to the
scene of an accident or disabled vehicle shall participate in, or influence,
the decision of the owner/operator as set out in division (A) above.
   (E)   If the owner/operator has no preference and no special circumstance
exist, then the police officer shall direct the radio dispatcher to notify the
next wrecker on the wrecker service list on a rotational basis.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.06 REMOVAL OF WRECKED, ABANDONED OR ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; NON-
PREFERENCE CALLS.
   Where the motor vehicle operator is injured, unavailable or otherwise
indicates no preference for the destination of a wrecker vehicle, then the
radio dispatcher shall dispatch the next wrecker on the rotational wrecker
list.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.07 REMOVAL OF LEGALLY PARKED, UNOCCUPIED VEHICLE.
   In the event of an emergency that required the Police Department to move a
legally parked, but unoccupied motor vehicle from a city street, then the
officer in charge shall instruct the radio dispatcher to dispatch the next
wrecker on the rotational list. The wrecker service will be contacted only
after the vehicle’s owner or operator cannot be contacted to remove the
vehicle, or when the owner or operator cannot be contacted to remove the
vehicle, or when the owner or operator cannot remove said vehicle in a timely
manner. Under these circumstances, the city shall be liable to the wrecker
service for the reasonable and customary tow charge, and the wrecker service
thus dispatched shall lose its position on the rotation list as would otherwise
occur under normal circumstances.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor may appoint an enforcement officer who shall monitor this
chapter, investigate complaints or non-compliance, and perform any and all
other duties assigned to him or her by the Mayor. If a complaint is filed and
upon preliminary investigation it is determined by the enforcement officer that
there is “probable cause” to believe that a violation of this chapter has
occurred, the enforcement officer shall present the complaint and all
documentation and evidence supporting same to the Mayor. The Mayor may take any
and all actions reasonably necessary and appropriate to determine the validity
or invalidity of the complaint. If the Mayor finds by a preponderance of the
evidence that a violation has occurred, he or she may impose the following
penalties.
      (1)   For the first violation, the wrecker service or storage facility
may be suspended from its respective service list for a period of time not to
exceed six months;
      (2)   For a subsequent violation by the same offender within a two-year
period, suspension from the appropriate list for at least six months, but not
to exceed one year. Any subsequent violation by the same offender within a two-
year period shall result in permanent removal form the appropriate list.
   (B)   The decision of the Mayor with regard to compliance issues and
imposition of penalties is final and binding.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
§ 114.09 PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor, in consultation with the Police Department, shall have authority
to adopt and promulgate appropriate rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 404-94, passed 8-29-1994)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
   
115.01   General
   
115.02   License requirements
   
115.03   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
115.04   Application and maintenance of license
   
115.05   Hours of sale
   
115.06   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
115.07   Minors
   
115.08   Consumption on premises prohibited
   
115.09   Malt beverage keg registration
   
115.10   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
115.11   Signs and advertising
   
115.12   Sidewalk café permit
 
   
115.98   Enforcement
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Alcoholic Beverage Control
Ordinance” of the City of Wilmore, Kentucky (hereinafter referred to as the
“city”).
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization under KRS Ch. 241 through 244.
   (C)   The definitions of the wards used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
alcoholic beverage control laws (KRS Ch. 241 through 244) of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
   (D)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and
traffic in both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context
permits such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the
licensee, or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any
licensed premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions,
requirements and penalties of any other ordinance of the city, or of any
statues of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS Ch. 241 through 244) and all amendments and
supplements thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter except as
otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-8, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   City licenses. For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging
in the actions, business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to
traffic in alcoholic beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS
243.070, there is hereby established a corresponding city license for each of
the state licenses described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license
shall be as set out in the schedule set forth below. In the event KRS 243.070
shall hereafter be amended to authorize additional city licenses, the fee for
each city license shall be the maximum fee provided in the statute as amended.
License Fee
License                                                        Fee
Distiller's license, per annum                                 $500
Rectifier's license
   Class A, per annum                                       $3,000
   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum                     $960
Wholesaler's license, per annum                                $3,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                        $1,000
Non-quota type 1 retail drink license, per annum               $2,000
Non-quota type 2 retail drink license, per annum               $1,000
Non-quota type 3 retail drink license, per annum               $300
Special temporary license, per event                           $166
Special temporary alcohol auction license, per event           $100
Extended hours supplement license, per annum                   $2,000
Caterer's license, per annum                                   $800
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum    $1,000
Brewer's license, per annum                                    $500
Microbrewery license, per annum                                $500
Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum                 $400
Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum      $200
Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum $200
Limited restaurant license, per annum                          $1,200
Limited golf course license, per annum                         $1,200
Qualified historic site, per annum                             $1,030
 
   (B)   The city exercises its grant of authority under KRS 243.230(2) to not
issue any quota retail drink licenses within the city.
   (C)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (D)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
   (E)   Certain special licenses defined.
      (1)   Limited restaurant license. A limited restaurant license may be
issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243, if the restaurant meets the definition of a
“limited restaurant” as set forth in KRS 241.010(37) it is a facility where the
usual and customary business is the serving of meals to consumers, which has a
bona fide kitchen facility, which receives at least 70% of its gross income
from the sale of food, and which maintains seating capacity of either 100 or 50
persons for dining.
      (2)   Limited golf course license. A limited golf course license may be
issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243 if an establishment meets the following
conditions: a golf course with nine, or 18, holes that meets United States Golf
Association criteria as a regulation golf course. A limited golf course license
shall authorize the licensee to purchase, receive, possess, and sell distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the
licensed premise.
      (3)   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license. A non-quota retail drink
license may be issued to, and in the following as defined by KRS to: a
convention center or a convention hotel complex; a horse racetrack; an
automobile racetrack; a railroad system; a commercial airlines system or
charter flight system, a qualified historic site, and a state park.
      (4)   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license. A non-quota retail drink
license may be issued pursuant to and as defined by KRS to the following: (a) a
hotel that contains at least 50 sleeping units, and which maintains 50% of its
gross food and drinks sales from the sale of food; (b) a restaurant that
maintains 50% of its gross food and drinks sales from the sale of food; (c) an
airport; (d) a riverboat; (e) a distiller; or (f) a business located within, or
adjacent to, an entertainment destination center licensed premises.
      (5)   Non-quota type 3 retail drink license. A non-quota type 3 retail
drink license may be issued pursuant to and defined by KRS to the following:
(a) a private club in existence for longer than one year prior to the license
application and which excludes the general public; (b) a dining car; and (c) a
bed and breakfast.
      (6)   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license. A non-quota
type 4 retail malt beverage drink license may be issued pursuant to and as
defined in KRS to the following: a holder of a quota retail drink license; a
holder of a microbrewery license; a holder of a small farm winery license; and
any other business wishing to sell malt beverages by the drink for consumption
on the premises. A non-quota retail malt beverage drink license shall not be
issued to any premises from which gasoline and lubricating oil are sold, or
from which the servicing and repair of motor vehicles is conducted, unless
there is maintained in inventory for sale on the premises at retail not less
than $5,000 of food, groceries, and related products valued at cost.
      (7)   Special temporary license. A special temporary license may be
issued only as set forth in KRS 243.260 and 804 KAR 4:250. Such a license may
be issued to any regularly organized fair, exposition, racing association,
organized civic or community-sponsored event, or charitable event as defined by
applicable law. This license shall authorize the licensee to exercise the
privileges of a quota retail drink licensee and a non-quota type 4 malt
beverage drink licensee at designated premises for a specified and limited
time, which shall not exceed 30 days and which shall expire when the qualifying
event ends. All restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits
and wine quota retail drink license or a non-quota retail malt beverage drink
license shall apply also to a special temporary licensee as described in this
section.
   (F)   Expiration of license; proration of fees. All city licenses, except
temporary licenses, shall begin on May 1 of any year and shall expire on April
30 of the following year as set forth in KRS 243.090 and 804 KAR 4:390. Any
licenses issued after May 1 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is based
on the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period; however, the
cost of any license shall not be less than one-half the amount of the full fee
for an annual license of that type.
   (G)   Payment of license fees; delinquency. No licensee shall enter into or
begin operating any business for which a license is required by this chapter
until the license fee has been paid in full. The fee for renewal of any license
shall be paid with the renewal application. Failure to pay any license fee
within ten days after it becomes due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of
the license fee. Any licensee failing to pay the fees, including penalties,
within ten days after such fees are due may be subject to revocation of the
license and to other penalties as provided in this chapter.
   (H)   Refund of fees.
      (1)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from
conducting the licensed business for the full period covered by the license
because of any changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the
Commonwealth with reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside
licensee’s control, then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate
part of the license fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from
carrying on business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the City ABC
Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee
or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or
an agent or employee of the licensee.
      (2)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
   (I)   Regulatory license fee.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory
license fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each
licensee who has a local license issued by the City ABC Administrator. The
city’s regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales of all alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled
spirits and wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The
regulatory license fee shall be 5% on gross retail sales of package malt
beverages.
      (2)   Payment of the regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk, or his or her
designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The city may use
the fees as permitted by law, including but not limited to, any cost of
additional policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale
of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any other fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit
against a regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount
equal to any license fee shall be based on paperwork required by the Local and/
or State ABC Administrator, which may include but is not limited to tax returns
and financial statements. The paperwork and payment will be due according to
the schedule set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which may be set
at, but is not limited to, time periods consisting of a monthly billing by the
local ABC office and/or the city.
      (3)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
      (4)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by the due
date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the regulatory fee; provided,
however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
      (5)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late
payments.
   (J)   Disposition of fees and any other type of payment to the city. The
City ABC Administrator shall transmit all fees and any other types of payment
made to the city, upon collection, to the City Clerk, or his or her designee,
for deposit into the appropriate designated account.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-8, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 115.03 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160 and KRS 241.170, there is hereby created
the office of the City of Wilmore Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
      (2)   The Mayor of the city appoints the Chief of the Wilmore Police
Department, an employee of the city to serve as the City Alcohol Beverage
Administrator, pursuant to KRS 241.170.
      (3)   The City Alcohol Beverage Administrator may from time to time
appoint such additional personnel, such as Alcohol Beverage Control
Investigator(s), as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of
this chapter.
      (4)   The City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and functions
regarding local license applications and renewals as the State Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control ("Department") with respect to state licenses. The
City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and functions regarding local
license penalization as the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board ("Board") with
respect to state license penalization.
      (5)   To prevent potential conflicts of interests, no person shall be a
City ABC Administrator, an investigator, or an employee of the city under the
supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a
member of the Board under state law set forth in KRS 241.100.
      (6)   The City ABC Administrator shall have authority delegated by the
Mayor, and as authorized under KRS Chs. 241 through 244. The City ABC
Administrator, and his or her investigators, shall have jurisdiction co-
extensive with the boundaries of the city.
      (7)   The City ABC Administrator and his or her investigators shall have
available at all reasonable times for their inspection all books and records
required to be maintained by licenses under KRS 244.150 and the City ABC
Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by licensees to the
Department.
      (8)   The City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties,
shall take the oath as prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution. The ABC
Administrator and any employee delegated or assigned to the ABC Administration
may also be asked to execute a bond in such penal sum as the city deems
necessary unless the person is already covered under the city's active bonds as
required under KRS in regards to officials and employees of the city.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken
to the State ABC Board by filing a notice of appeal with the Board within 30
days after the decision or order of the County ABC Administrator is mailed or
delivered by personal service. The notice of appeal shall specify the County
Administrator by name and shall identify the decision or order, or part of the
decision or order, being appealed. The notice shall contain a certificate that
a copy of the notice has been served on the City ABC Administrator and shall be
accompanied by a copy of the decision or order being appealed. Matters at issue
shall be heard by the Board as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from
decisions or orders of the County Administrator shall be governed by KRS Ch.
13B.
      (2)   As provided by law no appealed City ABC Administrator order or
decision, or resulting State Board order, shall become effective or final until
all Board appeals, court appeals, or appeal times shall have been exhausted.
When a Board order becomes final and effective, the City ABC Administrator
shall enter such orders and take such action as required by the final order of
the Board.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-8, passe 9-19-2022)
§ 115.04 APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Advertisement. Before an application for a license shall be
considered, the applicant must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an
alcoholic beverage license in the newspaper used by the city for legal notices
under KRS 424.120. The notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant
and the name and address of each principal owner, partner, member, officer, and
director if the applicant is a partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, governmental agency, or other business entity
recognized by law. All advertisements shall state the location of the proposed
premises for which the license is sought, and the type of business, and type of
license for which application is made.
      (2)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping
of the advertisement.
   (B)   Form of application.
      (1)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the Kentucky ABC Board and/or the city, both of which may be amended and
supplemented from time to time by each respective agency.
      (2)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail
such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought, as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the State
Department, and the city, including as follows:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date of residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky.
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license under this chapter;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
      (3)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cashier
check, or money order for the amount of the license fee.
      (4)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file, with the application, responses to any additional questions as may be
posed or prescribed by the City ABC Administrator. The City Council has adopted
a statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses within
this chapter to determine the extent to which applications may further, or
impede, the objectives of those guidelines. Therefore, in addition to the
information contained in the application, the City ABC Administrator may
require such other information as the Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, deem desirable, reasonable, or appropriate to the consideration of
the application.
   (C)   Other conditions. In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or
considerations required or permitted by law:
      (1)   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by a licensed building inspector,
and any and all other inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code or
other applicable law.
      (2)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any property taxes,
both real and personal, any other taxes due to the city, fees of any type, or
charges due to any department of the city at the time of issuing the license,
nor may any license be granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee upon which there are any of the
above delinquent payments due and owing to the city. Further, if a licensee
becomes delinquent in the payment of any of the above at any time during the
license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be subject
to revocation or suspension.
      (3)   No person, whether applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the City
ABC Administrator, or any member of the city’s staff, or any State ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a City or State ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit monetary
settlements in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a final order
or revocation or suspension, where the chapter and applicable statutes allow
for such payments in settlement.
   (D)   Form of license. All city licenses shall be in such form as may be
provided by the ABC Administrator, but at the least shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   The number of the license;
      (3)   The type of license;
      (4)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
      (5)   The expiration date of the license; and
      (6)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property
or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
   (E)   Change of information.
      (1)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the City ABC Administrator with ten days of the change.
      (2)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The
City ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
      (3)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word CHANGE is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (4)   The following information shall be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding
a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership;
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (5)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
   (F)   Renewal of license.
      (1)   Every year, except in the case of the temporary licenses, each
licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
City ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
existing lease; provided that the licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting
forth these facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to
extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length
of time within the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. The license fee shall not by payable until
application is made for the transfer of the license to a new location.
      (2)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not
be construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior
to such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the
licensee.
   (G)   Lost or destroyed license. When a license shall be lost or destroyed
without fault on the part of the licensee or his or her agent or employee, a
duplicate in lieu of the original license shall be issued by the City ABC
Administrator after the Administrator shall have been satisfied as to the
facts; provided, however, that the applicant for the duplicate license shall
pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate license.
   (H)   Revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC
Administrator if the licensee shall have violated any of other provisions of
KRS Chs. 241 through 244, or any rule or regulation of the State Board, or of
the Kentucky Department of Revenue, relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale and transportation, or taxation of alcoholic beverages or if
such licensee shall have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any
title or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission, or this chapter
now, heretofore, or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, and transportation, or taxation, of intoxicating liquors, or
any rules or regulations of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by
the terms of KRS Chs. 241 through 244 to be created, irrespective of whether
the licensee knew of or permitted the violation or whether the violation was
committed in disobedience of his or her instructions.
      (2)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City
ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be
revoked or suspended for the following causes:
         (a)   Conviction of the licensee or the licensee’s agent, servant, or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
         (b)   Making any false, material statements in an application or
renewal application for a license or supplemental license.
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee’s agents,
servants, or employees of: (1) two violations of the terms and provisions of
KRS Chs. 241 through 244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale, and
transportation of alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years; (2) two
misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic
beverages within two consecutive years; or (3) any felony.
         (d)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any
part of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any
statutes, ordinances, or acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a
violation of any related administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Revenue.
         (e)   Revocation of any state license provided in KRS 243.030, KRS
243.040, or permit granted under any Act of Congress relative to the regulation
of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages.
         (f)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook, or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook, or facility. This division shall not apply
to: (1) the sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS Ch. 154A;
(2) the operation of a pari-mutuel system for betting, where authorized by law;
(3) the conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization licensed or
permitted under KRS Ch. 238; or (4) special temporary raffles of alcoholic
beverages under KRS 243.036.
         (g)   Conviction of the licensee, the licensee’s agents, servants, or
employees for: (1) the trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Ch. 218A, including synthetic
drugs; (2) knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons upon
the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Ch.
218A, including synthetic drugs; or (3) knowingly receiving stolen property
upon the licensed premises.
         (h)   Failure to comply with the terms of the City Administrator.
   (I)   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license.
      (1)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of
any law enforcement officer, or of the City ABC Administrator, the City ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
      (2)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall provide constitutional due process rights to the
City ABC license holder.
      (3)   A decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed to the Board as provided in KRS 241.200 and KRS
243.550.
      (4)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license, or in the last statement supplemental to the application, shall
be deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the City ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of
Police, at the request of the City ABC Administrator, shall immediately cause
one of his or her officers to take physical possession of the license and
return it to the City ABC Administrator.
      (5)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee
may, with prior approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer
his or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
      (6)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license shall be to the State Board. The timely filing of an
appeal shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
      (7)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall suspend all
operations authorized under his or her license upon finality and effectiveness
of the order. Upon finality of any final order of the State Board sustaining or
ordering revocation or suspension on appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend
all operations authorized under this license.
   (J)   Transfer or assignment. No license issued under this chapter shall be
transferred or assigned either as to licensee or location except with prior
approval of the City ABC Administrator and not then until a payment of $100
shall be made to the City ABC Administrator.
   (K)   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses.
      (1)   The City ABC Administrator may refuse to issue a license for any of
the following reasons:
         (a)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for
suspension or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for
state licenses according to KRS 243.450, KRS 243.490 and KRS 243.500, as well
as violation of any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales
or the administration thereof;
         (b)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of
license would be authorized under local, state, or federal law; or
         (c)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
      (2)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the City ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the State Board pursuant to KRS 241.200
and KRS 243.550.
   (L)   Review of license; books, records and reports.
      (1)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter
shall provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions
of any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s monthly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide the
form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the monthly report. In the case of caterer filing, the monthly report
shall identity each catered event by type of event, date and address of the
event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of food
sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for filing
of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the premises of
any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether the
licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular month,
the City ABC Administrator shall have discretion in determining whether
revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a reasonable
period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is demonstrated by
the licensee, the City ABC Administrator may apply an accounting period of at
least one year in determining whether or not the food sale percentage
requirement has been met.
      (2)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain, upon the
licensed premises, adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (M)   Dormancy.
      (1)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this division (M).
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this division.
      (2)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period
of 90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (M)(3) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
      (3)   The provisions of division (M)(2) hereof shall not apply to any
licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease. Prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall
furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the
fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business, for any of the
specific reasons set forth herein, and the City ABC Administrator may grant an
extension of the dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect
during the license period or until same is transferred to another premises,
notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during the period;
provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless business is
conducted thereunder within 12 months from the date of notice to the City ABC
Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be
for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of
his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-8, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 115.05 HOURS OF SALE.
      (A)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall
be permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
      (B)   The licensee shall not be permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine
and/or malt beverages after the hour of 9:00 p.m.
      (C)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall
not be permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages on
Sunday.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.06 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Gambling. No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by
the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines, quarter pushers, prize redemption machines with
programmable payouts, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall not be
kept on such premises.
   (B)   Radio receiving apparatus. It shall be unlawful for any licensee
licensed under this chapter to have, or maintain, any radio receiving apparatus
on such premises which is intentionally adjusted so as to receive police
messages broadcast from any law enforcement agency in the city as it is now, or
may hereafter be operated. In addition to other penalties provided for the
violation of this section, the Chief of Police or the City ABC Administrator,
or his or her designated investigator, shall have the authority to confiscate
any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
   (C)   Security. The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security
on his or her premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit
customers to utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and
welfare of the general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security
standards are further necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around
the licensed premises.
   (D)   Prizes and premiums prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a licensee to
give away or offer to give away anything tangible of value as a premium or
prize, or for any other purpose in direct connection with the sale of malt
beverages unless permitted by KRS 244.500.
   (E)   Treating prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this
chapter to give away any alcoholic beverage to a consumer in any quantity for
free or for less than paid or current wholesale cost, unless the licensee holds
a sampling license or its license type permits limited free samples (e.g.,
small farm winery, microbrewery, brewer's), or a bona fide "close out" sale
approved by the State Administrators.
   (F)   Drunkenness. The licensee shall not sell, give, or deliver any
alcoholic beverages to any person who appears to a reasonable person to be
actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic beverages, controlled
substances, other intoxicating substances, or any of these substances in
combination, to the degree that the person may endanger any person or property,
or unreasonably annoy persons in the vicinity.
   (G)   Underage sales. The licensee shall not sell, give, or deliver any
alcoholic beverages to any person who is under 21 years of age, or permit same.
   (H)   Sign requirements - notice to persons under the age of 21.
      (1)   Per state law, the licensee shall display at all times in a
prominent place a sign at least eight inches by 11 inches in 30-point or larger
type font which states as follows:
      (2)   Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to $100 if
they:
         (a)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them,
alcoholic beverages.
         (b)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
         (c)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   License to be displayed.
      (1)   Pursuant to the requirements set forth in KRS 243.895, the
licensee, before commencing any business for which a license has been issued,
shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the room or
principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons visiting
the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any time post
the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon premises where
traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the
license, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
      (2)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons
a printed sign at least eight inches by 11 inches with gender-neutral language
supplied by the Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Services, which shall
warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy
can cause birth defects.
   (J)   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retail. No
wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any person in
the city for any consideration except under cash terms of the wholesaler or
distributor at or before the time of delivery. A wholesaler is also permitted
to extend credit for 30 days to a retailer for the purchase of distilled
spirits and wine.
   (K)   Employment restrictions. No licensee shall knowingly employ in
connection with his or her business any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years unless
permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
      (2)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years unless permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
      (3)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute, unless the person is exempt or permitted by KRS
244.090 or KRS 244.087;
      (4)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has
had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
   (L)   Lavatory facilities required. All retail beer and retail drink
licenses shall be required to provide indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for
their customers where such beverages are consumed on the premises.
   (M)   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited. No licensee
shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities, including nude or
nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide or stage shows,
cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed premise. No licensee
shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or simulated, upon any
licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet t-shirt or wet
clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, jello wrestling or
similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with touching for
compensation (including but not limited to wages, tips or gratuities), or any
other service, display or contest requiring physical contact between patrons
and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises. No licensee shall
sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink specials or free
drinks on any licensed premises in the city.
   (N)   Cause for revocation. Violation of this and any other section shall
subject the licensee to penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause
for revocation or suspension of city licenses.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.07 MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Chs. 241 through 244, no
person under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any
licensed premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085 and 804 KAR 5:070, no person under the age
of 21, except in the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises
licensed for the package sale of alcoholic beverages. No person under the age
of 21 may enter any premises licensed for drink sales of alcoholic beverages
unless permitted by KRS 244.085(5) and 804 KAR 5:070. The prohibition contained
in this division shall not apply to premises where the usual and customary
business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience store, grocery
store, drugstore, and other business types listed in KRS 244.085 and by the
State Board in 804 KAR 5:070.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly permit, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licenses, as set out in this chapter, shall require proof of age
of all persons attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee's premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of the minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals' possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individuals' possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.090.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.08 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Consumption at package store prohibited.
      (1)   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises unless it also holds the appropriate drink license.
The licensee shall post a prominent notice on the premises stating that
consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises is prohibited.
      (2)   This restriction regarding on premises consumption shall not
prohibit sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the
provisions of KRS Ch. 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail
distilled spirits and wine licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or
beer tastings as permitted in 804 KAR 11:030.
   (B)   Habitual congregating.
      (1)   Definitions. In addition to the definitions contained in KRS Chs.
241 through 244, as used in this section, the following terms are defined as
follows:
         HABITUAL shall mean consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use,
but not necessarily constant or exclusive;
         PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE shall mean a retail establishment selling
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to
licenses issued for those purposes;
         PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean any activity that endangers or interferes
with the general use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passers-by or the
health, safety and welfare of the public; and
         VACANT PROPERTY shall mean a vacant lot on which no building or other
structure exists or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or
which otherwise reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of
occupancy.
      (2)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages,
including retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed
premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
      (3)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise
in possession or control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so
as to constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section, if a
licensed vendor or property owner shall permit the city to post and maintain a
legible, painted or printed sign in at least two separate prominent places in
such area, in letters of not less than three inches in height, stating that
congregating of persons in prohibited and that violators shall be prosecuted
for trespass pursuant to KRS 511.080.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.09 MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, KEG is defined as a container
designed and capable of holding six or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   Malt beverage keg identification tag. All retail licensees (herein
after referred to as "licensee") operating within the city who sell malt
beverages in kegs for consumption off the premises of the licensee shall attach
a numbered identification tag or other device as provided by the city to each
keg at the time of sale and shall require the purchaser to complete and sign a
keg registration form for the keg stating the following:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the identification tag;
      (4)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his or her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
   (C)   Keg registration.
      (1)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver's
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
valid form of identification.
      (2)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for
a period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
      (3)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the city within
five working days in all situations when the keg is not returned or is returned
with the identification tag removed or obliterated.
      (4)   The city is authorized to develop appropriate rules and regulations
and to develop and make available forms for the identification tags and keg
registration forms.
      (5)   All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (D)   Unlawful sales. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer
for sale kegs without the identification tags attached and the keg registration
form completed. It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to
obliterate the identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form
visible and readily accessible from the location of the keg. The penalties for
violation of this section shall be the penalties as set out in this chapter. In
addition, licensees violating this section shall be subject to appropriate
alcoholic beverage control administrative remedies.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.10 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
      (A)   All persons employed in the selling and/or serving of alcoholic
beverages shall participate in and complete a responsible beverage serving
("RBS") program acceptable to the City ABC Administrator.
      (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
      (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premise licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty as described herein.
      (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall
be re-certified not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.11 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the city, including but not limited to,
the Planning and Zoning Ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be
amended in the future.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as "high test," "high proof" or "extra strong") or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
   (E)   No licensee shall erect or allow to be erected any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (F)   Any off-premises signage advertising the sale of alcoholic beverages
is prohibited. It shall be unlawful to attach signage advertising alcoholic
beverages to the exterior of the building or the exterior premises of the
business. This prohibition shall include the use of outdoor umbrellas or other
outdoor or patio fixtures that feature the name or logo of an alcoholic
beverage or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed
from the inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs,
banners, posters or other type of displaying advertising which refers either
directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall
it be visible from, the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name
of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and
one-half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars, or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally
owned property or at any municipally sponsored event.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.12 SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT.
   (A)   Sidewalk café permit.
      (1)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request a
permit to use sidewalk as an adjunct to the primary and adjacent licensed
premises to serve food and alcoholic beverages there. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
      (2)   Any licensee/restaurant that is licensed under this chapter and the
provisions of the state ABC laws, may, upon application to the Local ABC
Administrator, ask permission to expand the operation of the business/
restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public sidewalk which
immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as "sidewalk
café"). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to apply for a
sidewalk café permit.
   (B)   Conditions for sidewalk café permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions provided, however, that
the ABC Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
café where necessary in the judgment of the Administrator to protect the public
health, safety or welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing:
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when
the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the
end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas,
tables, chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area
shown on the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over use of the
public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to insure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passerby or persons who
are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
      (8)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
   (C)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafes. No sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the City
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such
sidewalk café, in an amount to be established by the City Attorney and the
City's Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named an additional insured in the
policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it
may not be canceled except upon ten day's written notice (or more) filed with
the ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator and his or her
investigator(s) are hereby authorized to enforce this chapter in full.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (1)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in Jessamine
District Court against an alleged violator, the City ABC Administrator may
assess civil fines in lieu of suspension as authorized in KRS 243.480,
including the per diem assessments for ongoing violations. Payment of all fines
shall be remitted to the City ABC Administrator, who shall then transmit the
fines to the City Clerk for deposit in the appropriate designated account.
   (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and subject to prosecution in the Jessamine County Court System,
as follows: for the first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$500, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both. The penalties
provided for in this section shall be in addition to the revocation or
suspension of the offender's license. If the offender is a corporation, LLC,
joint stock company, association or other business organization, or a
fiduciary, the principal officer or officers responsible for the violation may
be imprisoned.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-15-2021)
CHAPTER 116: CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Cannabis businesses prohibited
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABINET. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under this chapter as a cultivator,
dispensary, processor, producer, or safety compliance facility.
   CULTIVATOR. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
   DISPENSARY. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS. Means:
      (1)   Marijuana as defined in KRS 218A.010 when cultivated, harvested,
processed, produced, transported, dispensed, distributed, sold, possessed, or
used in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Includes medicinal cannabis products and raw plant material; and
      (3)   Does not include industrial hemp or industrial hemp products as
defined in KRS 260.850.
   PROCESSOR. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
   PRODUCER. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090.
   SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080,
218B.085, and 218B.090.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 6-17-2024)
§ 116.02 CANNABIS BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All cannabis businesses are hereby prohibited from operating in the
corporate city limits of Wilmore, Kentucky.
   (B)   CANNABIS BUSINESS means any entity licensed under KRS Chapter 218B as
a cultivator, dispensary, processor, producer, or safety compliance facility.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 6-17-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
   
131.   WEAPONS
   
132.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Littering
   
130.02   Nudity in public places or businesses
   
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to throw any filth, waste, papers or trash of any
sort upon the sidewalks or streets within the limits of said city or in any
alley therein.
   (B)   Any person owning real estate within the city limits are required to
keep all sidewalks adjoining his or her property free from grass, weeds, filth
and trash of all kinds and to see that the ditches are kept clean and all
obstructions removed therefrom.
(Ord. 5, passed 1-20-1922) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACES OR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANUS. The posterior opening of the alimentary canal.
      AREOLA. The colored ring around the nipple.
      BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Any location at which business or employment is
carried on for profit.
      PUBIC. Designating the region of the pubis.
      PUBLIC PLACE. The same meaning as “public place” defined in KRS 525.010.
      VULVA. The external parts of the female sexual organs.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   No person shall appear in public place or business establishment in
such a manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area,
anus, vulva or genitals, or any simulation thereof, and no female shall appear
in such manner or attire as to expose to view the portion of the breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or simulation
thereof.
      (2)   This prohibition shall include the entire lower portion of the
human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the
human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit
or other wearing apparel; provided, the areola is not exposed in whole or in
part. (Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
130.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than
$1, nor more than $10, for each offense; provided that, in the items listed in
§
130.01(B) of this chapter, the Chief of Police shall notify said owners to
comply with its provisions and, if after five days, after said notification the
order has not been obeyed. Then, said owner shall be liable as above. Each day
thereafter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine as provided by the Kentucky Revised Statutes for a Class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 5, passed 1-20-1922; Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Carrying concealed weapons
   
131.02   Air rifles, air pistols and the like
   
131.03   Firearms generally
   
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the power granted the city by KRS 237.115, it shall be
unlawful for any person, other than a law enforcement officer, to carry a
concealed deadly weapon on his or her person in any building, either owned or
operated by the city.
   (B)   The Chief of the city’s Police Department is hereby directed to
forthwith post all such buildings with appropriate signage in order to notify
the public of this prohibition.
(Ord. 446-96, passed 12-16-1996) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 AIR RIFLES, AIR PISTOLS AND THE LIKE.
      (A)   It shall be unlawful for any purpose to sale in a retail
establishment any air rifle, air pistol, b-b gun or similar gun, sling shot or
steel tipped arrow, within the city limits.
   (B)   It shall be further unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge an
air rifle, air pistol, b-b gun or similar gun, sling shot or steel tipped
arrow, within the city limits, except when done so in supervised classes as may
be provided from time to time by the Jessamine County Schools, Asbury College
or Asbury Theological Seminary, the city’s Recreation Department or any other
recognized civic organization.
(Ord. 330-89, passed 2-6-1989) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 FIREARMS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to shoot or discharge
firearms within said city, except for necessary for protection of persons or
property, unless a permit is obtained from the City Council; which permit may
allow shooting for certain purposes with designated limits or on prescribed
occasions; which permit shall be in writing and signed by the Mayor of the
Council and attested by the Clerk of the same.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-20-1922) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
131.02 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5 or no more than $100 for
each offense, and any parent or legal guardian of any minor who shall knowingly
permit such minor to violate this section shall likewise be fined not less than
$5 or no more than $100 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
131.03 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than
$5, nor more than $25, for each offense.
(Ord. 2, passed 1-20-1922; Ord. 330-89, passed 2-6-1989)
CHAPTER 132: CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Hours of curfew
   
132.03   Liability of parent or guardian
   
132.04   Exceptions
   
132.05   Enforcement
   
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOW. Either to permit or neglect to prevent. It requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the custodian; that is, the custodian
must actually know about the child violating this chapter, or the circumstances
must be such that a reasonably prudent custodian should have known the child
was violating this chapter.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands “in loco parentis”; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of court.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or as may be otherwise phrased, any
person of the age of 17 or under unless emancipated by marriage or service with
the armed forces of the United States.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street or highway.
(Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010)
§ 132.02 HOURS OF CURFEW.
   Except as set forth in §
132.04 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any minor to be or remain in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway within the
county at night during the following periods:
   (A)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
   (B)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
   (C)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
   (D)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
   (E)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
   (F)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday; and
   (G)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday.
(Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 LIABILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any custodian having legal custody of a minor to
allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public assembly, building, place,
street or highway in the county under circumstances not constituting an
exception as enumerated in §
132.04 of this chapter, during the time periods contained in §
132.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway in the county during the nocturnal hours
provided for in §
132.02 of this chapter shall not be considered in violation of this chapter:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a custodian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a custodian of such minor;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; provided that, written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a custodian is in the possession of such minor specifying
when, where, and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First
Amendment rights;
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after such minor’s custodian
has communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing such
reasonable necessity;
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the Police Department;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association or work; provided that, justification indicating the
place and time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating
officer of the Police Department;
   (G)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Judge Executive in cases
of reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with
on an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in
advance to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such
as the schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use
of the public assembly, building, place, street or highway permitted and the
period of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Judge Executive shall notify the Police Department of
said information;
   (H)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
commonwealth authorize a minor to perform;
   (I)   When the minor is, with custodian’s consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; and
   (J)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the county for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the
county, including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
(Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010)
§ 132.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway whose custodian is
believed to be in violation of this chapter may stop and question such minor
and request such information as his or her name, age and the name and address
of his or her custodian.
   (B)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minor’s custodian
and then either take the minor to the minor’s home or direct the minor to
proceed immediately to the minor’s home.
(Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any custodian allowing a minor to violate any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months.
(Ord. 624-10, passed - -2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   
150.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
151.   STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
   
152.   SIGNS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization
   
150.02   Findings of fact
   
150.03   Statement of purpose
   
150.04   Objectives
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
150.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
150.08   Development permit
   
150.09   Compliance
   
150.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.11   Interpretation
   
150.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
150.13   Enforcement, violations and notice
   
150.14   Local Administrator; duties
   
150.15   Appeals and variances
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.30   General construction standards
   
150.31   Specific standards
   
150.32   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A Zones) and/or floodways
   
150.33   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
150.34   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
150.35   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
150.36   Critical facilities
   
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Ch. 95
   Signs and Building Regulations, see
Ch. 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the commonwealth has, in KRS 100.117, delegated to local
government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City
Council hereby adopts this chapter, as follows.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood-blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination
of both. In A ZONES, flood waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are
usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year flood, base
flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the decertification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designed AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. (Also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD.) BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated or qualified community
official) from available technical studies, historical information and other
available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic inundation by
flood waters that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs
effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as
EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management ordinances and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is water-tight to a specified design
elevation with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and all structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated
debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional hydraulic and/
or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
150.15 of this chapter, the variance granted must not cause fraud on, or
victimization of, the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit (i.e., county or municipality) that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The
   HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of a dam does not reflect in any way the
current condition of a dam and its appurtenant structures (e.g., safety,
structural integrity, flood-routing capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, flood-proof, demolish
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250. Plans for dams, levees and the like to be approved and permit
issued by the Cabinet (Environmental and Public Protection Cabinet):
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood-control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the Cabinet, by regulation, may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions which are not of such size or type as to require approval
by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply;
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filling of any area with earth, debris or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above; and
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Ch. 350 shall have
exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Ch. 151 concerning the regulation of dams,
levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills or other obstructions across or
along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Ch. 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCs include the following
categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met.
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities, except for essential lighting and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support or
basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion of
construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle”. (See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but is not limited to, small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months’ duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally referenced FIRMs
(DFERMs). Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). (See BASE FLOOD.) The flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter “A” is subject to the 100-year flood.
Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a
flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before 12-31-1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
12-31-1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5 and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure or three or more flood
losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than the
current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as amended, which states that no new or renewal
flood insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that the
Administrator finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local
zoning authority or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or
local laws, regulations or ordinances that are intended to discourage or
otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AO or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development.) The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition:
         (a)   “Repair” is considered to occur when the first repair or
reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building commences; and
         (b)   “Market value” shall be the value of the structure as listed on
the county’s PVA assessment.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration or improvement to a
building, taking place during a five-year period, in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building, and market value shall be the value of the
structure as listed on the county’s PVA assessment.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities
and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and
pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE.
      (1)   The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
      (2)   Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of
being equaled or exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C
Zones on older FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability
of flooding is less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA) and, as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator or other delegated, designated or
qualified community official as determined by the City Council from available
technical studies, historical information and other available and reliable
sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the city which may be subject to
periodic inundation by flood waters that can adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the county
dated 6-2-2011, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMS), other
supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the City Council,
and for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by the City Council pursuant to statutes
governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent
records of the city and are on file and available for review by the public
during regular business hours at Jessamine County Courthouse, 101 N Main
Street, Nicholasville, KY 40356.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.08 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See division (B) below for
instructions and explanation.
      (2)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction
or other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in
§ 150.07 of this chapter. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities and may include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Endorsement of the local Administrator is required before a state floodplain
construction permit can be processed.
      (2)   Specifically, the following information is required.
         (a)   Application stage.
            1.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
            2.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
            3.   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §§
150.31(B) and
150.33(B) of this chapter; and
            4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
         (b)   Construction stage.
            1.   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood- proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30 and A Zones
where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
            2.   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure,
said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, the commonwealth, the Federal Insurance Administration or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.13 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or
complying with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and
any approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See §
150.99 of this chapter.
   (C)   Notice of citation; notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly
authorized employee or agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable
cause to believe that a person has caused development to occur which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or
complying with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and
any approved modifications thereof, a duly authorized employee of the
Floodplain Administrator may issue a citation to the offender stating the
violation, prior notices of violation issued, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, and
what penalty or penalties are recommended. When a citation is received, the
person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the citation within
seven days of the date the citation is received by either carrying out the
remedies and corrections set forth in the citation, paying the civil fine set
forth in the citation or requesting a hearing before the governing body. If the
person to whom the citation is issued does not respond to the citation within
seven days, that person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and the determination that a violation occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.14 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Designation of Local Administrator. The City Council hereby appoints
the Administrative Officer of the Jessamine County-Wilmore Joint Planning
Commission to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter
by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions,
and is herein referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator”.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
      (2)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
            1.   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
            2.   All other required state and federal permits have been
obtained: review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required
by federal or state law, including 33 U.S.C. § 1334;
            3.   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
            4.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the
carrying capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter,
ADVERSELY AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
         (b)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
150.07 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal or state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
150.30 through
150.36 of this chapter. Any such information shall be submitted to the City
Council for adoption.
            1.   Notify adjacent communities, the commonwealth’s Division of
Water and any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory
authority prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
            2.   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
            3.   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
         (c)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
            1.   Certification required by §
150.31(A) of this chapter (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and
certified elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
150.08(B)(2) of this chapter;
            2.   Certification required by §
150.31(B) of this chapter (elevation or flood-proofing of non-residential
structures) as shown on a completed and certified flood-proofing certificate.
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
150.08(B)(2) of this chapter;
            3.   Certification required by §
150.31(C) of this chapter (elevated structures);
            4.   Certification of elevation required by §
150.34(A) of this chapter (subdivision standards);
            5.   Certification required by §
150.31(E) of this chapter (floodway encroachments);
            6.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
            7.   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
            8.   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §§
150.13 and
150.99 of this chapter.
         (d)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
            1.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
150.15(C)(2) of this chapter;
            2.   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
150.07 of this chapter, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§§
150.30 through
150.36 of this chapter;
            3.   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure,
the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
150.31(B) of this chapter, a flood-proofing certificate; and
            4.   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
         (e)   Right of entry.
            1.   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the administrator by this chapter.
            2.   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure
or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such request
entry.
            3.   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
            4.   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
         (f)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on
any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her
agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed.
         (g)   Revocation of permits.
            1.   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued
under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
            2.   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by
the Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
         (h)   Liability. Any officer, employee or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee or member because
of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter shall be defended by the appropriate legal authority until the final
termination of the proceedings.
         (i)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.15 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare.
The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be
met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines
provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that
must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are
designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a
variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish an Appeal Board consisting of Jessamine County-Wilmore Board of
Adjustments.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustments shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustments or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Board of Adjustments shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Adjustments may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction,
substantial improvement and other proposed new development to be erected on a
lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level; providing that, the
procedures of §§
150.08(B),
150.14 and
150.30 through
150.36 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
150.05 of this chapter under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or
victimization of the public (as defined in §
150.05 of this chapter) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (8)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided that, the provisions of divisions (E)(1)
through (E)(5) above are satisfied and that the structure or other development
is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a
public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Clerk at the County Courthouse and
shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the
affected parcel of land; and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures (see definition) upon determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued for any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.30 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction, as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
150.07 of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
(A)   Residential construction.
   (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, mechanical equipment and ductwork elevated no lower than two feet
above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used
to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with standards of
division (C) below:
      (a)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified;
      (b)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by the community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced. Title
401 KAR Ch. 4, Reg. 060, § 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical
requirements for a state floodplain permit: the applicant shall provide cross-
sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood
elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not
available. All cross-sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall
have vertical error tolerances of no more than plus five-tenths (+0.5) foot.
Cross-sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent
significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of
the base floodplain change. Each cross-section shall extend across the entire
base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by
the Cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
32   Wilmore - Land Usage
flood damage will not occur, the Cabinet may require additional cross-sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations; and
      (c)   In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation.
   (2)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community’s Building Inspection
Department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
(B)   Non-residential construction.
   (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes used for
non-residential purposes) shall be elevated to conform with division (A) above
or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (a)   Be flood-proofed below an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is water-tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; or
      (c)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and
ductwork, elevated at least two feet above the level of the base flood
elevation.
   (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in § 150.08(B)(1)(c) of this chapter.
   (3)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below.
   (4)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are subject to
flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below an elevation
two feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of flood water. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin
1-93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
      (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect; or
      (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood water.
Flood Damage Prevention   33
(C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts or pilings (for example) that include
fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the
base flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
   (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
      (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
      (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher than
the exterior foundation grade); and
      (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions.
   (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
   (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
(D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
   (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on sites
located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE Zones on the community’s Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction following
appropriate Underwriters Laboratory Inc. requirements, including elevation and
anchoring. Locations include:
      (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
      (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
      (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
      (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
      (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
      (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood.
34   Wilmore - Land Usage
   (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
      (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
      (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated at least two feet above the level of
the base flood elevation; and
      (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (3)   Excepting manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
      (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
         1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated at least
two feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less than
36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (b)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH and AE Zones on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            a.   Be on the site for fewer than 90 consecutive days;
            b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            c.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
      (c)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the commonwealth’s motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached
additions.
(E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
150.07 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
Flood Damage Prevention   35
   (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments unless certification (with supporting
technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base flood elevation
levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
   (2)   If division (E)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§ 150.30 through 150.36 of
this chapter; and
   (3)   Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes), except in
an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; provided, the anchoring standards of §
150.30(B) of this chapter and elevation standards of division (A) above are
met.
(F)   Standards for utilities.
   (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate:
      (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (b)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them, or contamination from them during flooding.
(G)   Structures elevated on fill. A residential or non-residential structure
may be constructed on permanent fill in accordance with Division of Water
regulations.
(H)   Vegetative buffer strips (riparian zones). For all activities involving
construction within 25 feet of the channel, the following criteria shall be
met.
   (1)   A natural vegetative buffer strip shall be preserved within at least
25 feet of the mean high water level of the channel.
   (2)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
   (3)   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided for stream
maintenance purposes.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
36   Wilmore - Land Usage
§ 150.32 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in § 150.07 of
this chapter, where streams exist, but where no base flood data has been
provided or where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the
following provisions apply.
(A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be located
within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
(B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with § 150.07
of this chapter.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.33 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in § 150.07 of
this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is
unpredictable and intermediate; therefore, the following provisions apply.
(A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
(B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
   (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above either
the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood depth specified on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no flood
depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated no
less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be completely
flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone AO, to or
above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that any space
below that level is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and
Flood Damage Prevention   37
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as stated
in § 150.31(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.34 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
(A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
(B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such
as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
(C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
(D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
(E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure(s)
and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(F)   All new subdivision proposals shall include emergency access that will be
subject to no more than six inches of flood waters during the 1% annual chance
flood (100-year flood).
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.35 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”,
the following provisions shall apply:
(A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
(B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
(C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
(D)   Built of flood-resistant materials below a level two feet above the base
flood elevation;
38   Wilmore - Land Usage
(E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
(F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
(G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.36 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into flood
waters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 180 days, or both, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 627-11, passed 6-20-2011)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Authorizing use of property, streets and alleys
   
151.02   Street excavations and digging
Street Light Standards and Procedures
   
151.15   General regulations
   
151.16   Minimum standards
   
151.17   Installation procedures
   
151.18   Costs
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 AUTHORIZING USE OF PROPERTY, STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The city hereby grants unto the Wilmore Utilities System, any and all
general and sub-contractors, their employees and servants, employed or
contracted with or by said city for up-grading, enlarging or in any manner
improving the water treatment facilities, storage or delivery systems located
in said city, any and all architectural firms or companies, and any other
person, company, corporation, institution or body engaging in any way in the
improvement of said water treatment, storage or delivery facilities, the free
and unrestricted use and easement to all city roads, streets, alleyways and any
other property which may be needed in order to construct, repair, improve,
change, enlarge or upgrade the water treatment, delivery and storage systems of
said city.
(Ord. 240-80, passed 3-17-1980)
   39
40   Wilmore - Land Usage
§ 151.02 STREET EXCAVATIONS AND DIGGING.
(A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation to whom a permit shall be granted
to make an excavation in any street in the city shall be required to make a
deposit with the City Clerk in the amount of not less than $25, nor more than
$50, depending on the size of the excavation to be made.
   (2)   The deposit shall be refunded at such time as the Street Committee of
the City Council shall be satisfied that the street is in as good repair as it
was before the excavation was made.
   (3)   If the person, firm or corporation making any excavation in any street
shall fail to repair said street to the satisfaction of the Street Committee of
the City Council, the deposit made shall be retained by said city and used by
said city to make repairs necessary.
(B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dig up or
otherwise deface any permanent street in the city for any purpose whatsoever
without first having secured a permit from the City Council.
(Ord. 115, passed 4-21-1948; Ord. 119, passed 8-26-1948) Penalty, see § 151.99
STREET LIGHT STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
§ 151.15 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
(A)   No street lighting shall be installed on public streets, except in
compliance with this subchapter.
(B)   Street light easement or pole locations shall be shown on all subdivision
plats and development plans as applicable.
(C)   Underground distribution lines for utilities and cable shall be required
in all new residential subdivisions (adopted in § 5.301, subdivision
regulations, for the Jessamine County-City of Wilmore Planning Commission).
(D)   A street lighting plan that provides light fixture locations, lumen
levels and fixture style must be submitted to the city. No lighting-related
construction shall begin prior to receipt of written approval of a submitted
lighting plan. The written approval must be signed by either the Mayor or the
Public Works Director.
(E)   All street lights in the city shall be under the full jurisdiction and
control of the Public Works Department. The Department shall have the authority
to enforce the rules and regulations enacted by the City Council to
successfully operate the system. No installation of new street lights shall be
approved unless permission is given by the Public Works Director.
Streets and Public Property   41
(F)   Street lights are the property of, and shall be maintained by, the
utility serving the area in which the street lights are located.
(G)   All lighting poles, supporting bases for mounting poles, luminaries and
arms and brackets for supporting luminaries installed within the city limits
shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 564-06, passed 9-11-2006) Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.16 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
(A)   Where the installations are for the sole purpose of street lighting,
poles shall be aluminum composition of sufficient height to provide a 25-foot
mounting height of the luminaire. Wood poles whose primary purpose is for other
utility distribution (electric, telephone and the like) may have street
lighting arms, brackets and luminaires mounted on them as a secondary use only.
However, prior approval from the Public Works Director shall be required before
any street lighting will be allowed to be mounted to these wood poles.
(B)   Poles may be either concrete base mounted or direct burial if located on
either a local or collector street. Poles located on an arterial street shall
be concrete base mounted only.
(C)   The city shall accept only two styles of light fixtures for public
financial responsibility and maintenance. Styles accepted by the city are the
colonial post top and cobra head. All other styles must receive prior specific
written approval from the city.
(D)   The type of luminaire to be used shall be based on the classification of
the street on which a street light is located.
   (1)   Local streets. Streets that are classified as local streets shall use
100 watt (9,500 lumens) high-pressure sodium vapor luminaires.
   (2)   Collector streets. Streets that are classified as collector streets
shall use either 100-watt (9,500 lumens) or 230-watt (22,000 lumens) high-
pressure sodium vapor luminaires as determined by the Public Works Director.
The determination will be based on the amount of traffic or hazardous
conditions that may exist and the amount of residential development at that
location. If a 230-watt luminaire is required, the developer will be duly
notified.
   (3)   Arterial streets. Streets that are classified as arterial streets
shall use 230-watt (22,000 lumens) high-pressure sodium vapor luminaires or
larger as determined by the Public Works Director.
(E)   Street classification is to be determined according to the standards and
diagrams contained in the County/City Joint Planning Commission’s subdivision
regulations and comprehensive plan.
(F)   The arms for supporting the luminaires shall be six feet for the 100
watts and six feet for the 230 watts.
42   Wilmore - Land Usage
(G)   All light fixtures shall be spaced at intervals of 200 to 250 feet. The
specific spacing for a particular installation shall be determined by the
anticipated coverage of the particular fixture and lumen level. This spacing
may only be varied only with approval of the city and Kentucky Utilities.
Different spacing may be required by Kentucky Utilities or the city in the
event circumstances exist which render the standard spacing inappropriate.
(H)   Specifications for the poles, construction of the concrete base,
luminaires and supporting arms are attached to and made a part of this chapter
and copies of the specifications will be maintained in the City Clerk’s office.
(I)   Any exceptions to these minimum standards must be approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 564-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 151.17 INSTALLATION PROCEDURES.
   For areas within the city limits all street lighting shall be installed by
the developer at its own expense and in accordance with the city’s
specifications. The city will authorize in writing to furnish and install all
street lighting in accordance with their standards and policies, which may
exceed, but may not be less than the city’s minimum standards. For areas within
the city limits all street lighting shall be installed by the developer at his,
her or their own expense and in accordance with the city’s specifications. The
city will authorize in writing to furnish and install all street lighting in
accordance with their standards and policies, which may exceed, but may not be
less than the city’s minimum standards.
(Ord. 564-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 151.18 COSTS.
(A)   Regardless of which utility jurisdiction that street lights are installed
in, the developer shall pay the city for each unit installed.
(B)   The developer may pay the city in either of the following methods:
   (1)   The city may be paid in advance for all installation costs at a rate
per unit to be determined when the County/City Joint Planning Commission
approves the final subdivision plat for the development; or
   (2)   Payment may be deferred until street lighting installation is required
and authorized by the city at a later date. If the developer selects this
method, installation costs at a rate per unit will be determined when the
street lights are authorized by the city.
(C)   A unit consists of a pole, concrete supporting base, anchor bolts,
luminaire complete with lamp and photo electric control, bracket, an arm for
supporting the luminaires and all wire and labor to install the unit.
Streets and Public Property   43
(D)   The rate per unit will be determined according to utility jurisdiction
and in the following manner. The rate per unit will be determined by the city
based upon actual costs per unit figures for labor and material submitted to
the city. The rate per unit will be determined by the city based upon actual
costs per unit figures for labor and material submitted to the city by the
electrical service provider with jurisdiction.
(Ord. 564-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
(A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of § 151.03(B)
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $150, nor more than
$100, and shall be required as well to repair any damage to any street to the
satisfaction of the City Council.
(Ord. 115, passed 4-21-1948)
44   Wilmore - Land Usage
CHAPTER 152: SIGNS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Vending machines
   
152.02   Uniform housing numbers
   
152.03   Mailbox placement
Signs
   
152.15   Outdoor signage
   
152.16   Political advertisements; removal
Buildings
   
152.30   Building facades in Historic District
   
152.31   New buildings
   
152.32   Building upkeep within the city
   
152.33   Building permits; rates
   
152.34   Adoption of state codes; enforcement agents
   
152.35   Building inspection program; permits and fees
   
152.36   Appeals
   
152.37   Electrical inspection fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 VENDING MACHINES.
   Vending machines may not be placed on the sidewalk, streets nor open
entrance ways in the city.
(Ord. 510-01, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see § 152.99
   45
46   Wilmore - Land Usage
§ 152.02 UNIFORM HOUSING NUMBERS.
   It shall be required of all new residences or buildings constructed within
the corporate limits of the city after the enactment of this section to place
thereon the numerical street number for said residence or building in a form or
fashion that is clearly visible and readable by the motoring public from the
roadway upon which the building sits. This numerical house number shall be
placed thereon prior to the occupancy of the building or residence in any form
or fashion.
(Ord. 316-88, passed 6-20-1988) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.03 MAILBOX PLACEMENT.
(A)   Each and every curbside mailbox located within the city shall be
installed at the curb or roadside on the property owned and/or occupied by the
U.S. Postal Service customer.
(B)   This section shall control not only residential, but also commercial and
industrial, settings and shall remain in full force and effect until repealed
by lawful procedure by the City Council.
(Ord. 277-84, passed 11-19-1984) Penalty, see § 152.99
SIGNS
§ 152.15 OUTDOOR SIGNAGE.
(A)   Outdoor business signs, whether freestanding or attached to buildings,
must be approved by the City Council or its appointed delegate(s) before
display. An ordinance to this effect will enhance the city’s unique character,
but will allow for individual designs. Consideration for signage requirements
used by franchised businesses will be given consideration, although
restrictions may apply regarding size, color and placement.
(B)   All neon and lighted signs, if to be used after close of business hours,
are discouraged and are unlikely to be approved. Signs in place in the city on
9-1-2000 are exempt from these provisions, which, however, shall apply to the
building if it is sold or if the nature of the business changes.
(C)   Sign plans must be presented to Council for approval. Decisions will be
given as soon as possible. In cases of rejection, suggestions for compliance
will be given.
(D)   An approved sign program is in place that property owners may wish to
utilize. Sign boards in several sizes with a choice of background colors
selected by the Community Development Design
Signs and Building Regulations   47
Committee are available free. The sign, however, belongs to the building upon
which it is placed. The property owner may also select letters and designs from
among approved styles.
(Ord. 510-01, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.16 POLITICAL ADVERTISEMENTS; REMOVAL.
   All city and county candidates shall be responsible in seeing that any
outdoor advertising, including, but not limited to, billboards, yard signs,
bumper stickers, posters and the like shall be removed from public property
and/or the public right-of-way within five days following the election for
which they were posted. Furthermore, it shall be the obligation of all of the
individuals residing in the city to remove all state, federal and local
political posters, billboards and yard signs from their property within five
days after the election for which it was posted.
(Ord. 374-91, passed 12-16-1991) Penalty, see § 152.99
BUILDINGS
§ 152.30 BUILDING FACADES IN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   The facades of commercial buildings more than 50 years old located within
the city’s commercial district covered by the National Historic Designation may
not be altered to anything but their original design. This includes roof lines
and cornices. Limestone foundations must remain unpainted. Window replacement
must be the size of the originals. Plywood fill may not be used as long-term
window covering.
(Ord. 510-01, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.31 NEW BUILDINGS.
(A)   (1)   New buildings in the commercial districts should employ a facade or
composite facade of wood materials, stone, block or brick. Metal buildings must
comply with 80% of this requirement for all sides that can be seen in full
view. Exceptions may be granted. Request for exceptions should be made in
writing to City Hall, with supporting documents.
   (2)   Exceptions will be determined by the City Council.
(B)   Building design plans and property design and layout plans for any new
commercial project must be approved by the City Council in addition to the
approval of the Wilmore-Jessamine County Joint Planning Commission.
(Ord. 510-01, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see § 152.99
48   Wilmore - Land Usage
§ 152.32 BUILDING UPKEEP WITHIN THE CITY.
   Commercial buildings must be kept in reasonable repair. Broken windows must
be repaired and doors kept locked. Cardboard, plywood or particle board are not
acceptable for permanent repair. Roofs must be kept in reasonable repair to
prevent structural damage and, in general, property must not be allowed to
deteriorate in such a way as to inflict damage to the building. Vermin control
in a building is the owner’s responsibility and must satisfy inspection of the
Building Inspector for the county.
(Ord. 510-01, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.33 BUILDING PERMITS; RATES.
   The city shall adopt the building permit fees and related charges as
presently used by the county and shall apply those rates for any building
permits or other appropriate fees charged in the city limits.
(Ord. 351-90, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 152.34 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
(A)   The Kentucky Building Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120, and the Kentucky
Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, are to be enforced by
County/City Joint Planning Commission as if set out in length herein.
   (1)   A copy of the Kentucky Building Code and the Kentucky Residential Code
is on file at the County/City Joint Planning Commission, and the Director shall
at all times keep copies of these codes for reference.
   (2)   A copy of Ordinance 1-2019 shall be transmitted to the Department of
Housing, Building and Construction of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(B)   The County/City Joint Planning Commission shall be designated as the
local law enforcement agent/agency for the Kentucky Building Code. All building
code inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the Kentucky
Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction. All electrical inspections
shall be performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction as electrical inspectors.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-4-2019) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.35 BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM; PERMITS AND FEES.
(A)   Building inspection program.
Signs and Building Regulations   49
   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is hereby
established in the city for application to all buildings subject to 815 KAR 7:
120 Kentucky Building Code.
   (2)   The city building inspection program shall include plan review and
inspections of structures subject to 815 KAR 7:125 Kentucky Residential Code.
(B)   Permits and fees. The fees for permits and inspections shall be as
established by the County/City Joint Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 152.36 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless
and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter
198B, is established to hear the appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 152.37 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION FEES.
   The fees for electrical inspections in the city are as follows.
(A)   Rough in, TOP and final: $70.
   (1)   Fees apply to: single-family dwellings, mobile homes, renovations,
service change outs, barns, out buildings, garages, room additions, swimming
pools, and temporary construction service.
   (2)    Per requested trip, including turn downs.
   (3)   Inspection fees are due when the inspection is made (each trip).
(B)   Duplex, multi-family dwellings.
   (1)   First unit rough-in: $70 per trip.
   (2)   Second unit and thereafter: $50 per unit, per trip.
   (3)   Per requested trip, including turn downs.
(C)   Electrical work not exceeding $30,000: $400 flat rate.
50   Wilmore - Land Usage
(D)   All other electrical work.
   (1)   $30,001 to $250,000: 1.25% of total contract.
   (2)   $250,001 and higher: 1% of total contract.
   (3)   The electrical contractor shall provide copies of all contracts
pertaining to electrical costs and shall provide total costs of electrical
materials and labor provided by others to obtain the total inspection fee. The
inspection fee shall be calculated based on the total cost of the electrical
system, including all emergency power equipment, fire alarm systems, and all
data, communication and alarm systems.
   (4)   Electrical permits will not be issued until the electrical contractor
complies with this requirement. A separate fee will be calculated for each
contract. All fees for dwellings and other inspections listed above shall be
per 200 amps of service. On commercial and industrial inspections, one third of
the inspection fee shall be due when the permit is issued, one third of the
inspection fee shall be due before the power is turned on, and the balance is
due 30 days prior to final inspection. Certificates of compliance will not be
issued until fees are paid in full.
(Ord. 7-19, passed 4-1-2019)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
(A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(B)   Violation of § 152.16 of this chapter shall be punishable by the maximum
fine of $10, with each day being a separate and distinct offense under § 152.16
of this chapter.
(C)   Violation of § 152.32 of this chapter is liable to citation by the City
Council, which may set a fine of $10 per day until the damage is repaired.
(D)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
152.34 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (1)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(Ord. 374-91, passed 12-16-1991; Ord. 510-01, passed 6-18-2001)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND BOUNDARIES
   
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
III.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
   
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
   
V.   STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND BOUNDARIES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain real estate known as Asbury Farm, Jewel
105B     3-1-1946    Heights, the Bromley Addition and the Allen Farmand
                     property
125      7-7-1950    Annexing certain real estate owned by Cecil B. Hamann and
                     Ruth Heller Hamann
126      7-7-1950    Annexing certain real estate owned by S.J. Campbell and
                     Iva P. Campbell
127      10-6-1950   Annexing certain real estate located on Kenyon Avenue
128      10-6-1950   Annexing certain real estate
132      2-4-1952    Annexing certain real estate
138      6-15-1954   Proposing to annex unincorporated territory in Jewel
                     Heights Addition
141      10-4-1954   Proposing to annex unincorporated territory
145      7-4-1955    Annexing certain unincorporated territory deeded to
                     Russell C. Murphy and wife
178      1-30-1970   Extending and defining the city limits
200      11-22-1974  Annexing certain real estate belonging to Wilmore Camp
                     Meeting, Inc.
202-75   12-10-1974  Annexing certain real estate
208-75   9-16-1975   Annexing certain real estate
221-77   4-18-1977   Annexing 7.229 acres belonging to Asbury College
227-70   7-10-1978   Proposing to annex real estate belonging to James L.
                     Butler
228-78   9-18-1978   Annexing certain real estate belonging to James L. Butler
260-83   5-16-1983   Annexing certain real estate belonging to William C. Ward
                     Jr. and Gail Ward
268-84   4-16-1984   Intending to annex 267.81 acres of certain real estate
269-84   8-6-1984    Annexing certain real estate belonging to Georgia Sweeney
                     Establishing a decree of annexation of certain real estate
297-87   6-1-1987    belonging to Charles James Parrish and Sylvia Evans
                     Parrish
298-87   6-1-1987    Establishing a decree of annexation of certain real estate
                     belonging to Hugh B. Sims Jr.
299-87   6-1-1987    Establishing a decree of annexation of certain real estate
                     of Veal Realtor and Auctioneers, Inc.
300-87   6-1-1987    Establishing a decree of annexation of certain real estate
                     belonging to Frederick Skeele and Linda M. Skeele
309-87   12-1-1987   Intending to annex 2.979 acres of certain real estate
311-88   2-15-1988   Intending to annex the Stanley Wiggs property
312-88   2-15-1988   Intending to annex the Walter Prentice property
314-88   5-16-1988   Intending to annex certain real estate
317-88   7-18-1988   Establishing a decree of annexation of the Stanley Wiggs
                     property
318-88   7-18-1988   Establishing a decree of annexation of the Walter Prentice
                     property
319-88   7-18-1988   Establishing a decree of annexation of the sewer plant
                     property
320-88   8-15-1988   Intending to annex certain real estate
324-88   10-3-1988   Establishing a decree of annexation of certain real estate
326-88   10-24-1988  Establishing a decree of annexation of certain real estate
331-89   2-20-1989   Intending to annex certain real estate
348-90   4-2-1990    Intending to annex 67.76 acres on North Lexington Avenue
353-90   7-16-1990   Establishing a decree of annexation of 67.76 acres on
                     North Lexington Avenue
372-91   8-26-1991   Establishing a decree of annexation of the Robert Thompson
                     Jr. and Anna Louise Reister property on Highway 29
438-96   3-4-1996    Annexing certain real estate on Lexington Harrodsburg and
                     Perryville Pike
450-97   5-19-1997   Intending to annex certain property from the Roseglade
                     Farm
456-97   9-15-1997   Annexing certain real estate owned by Bill and Gail Ward
457-97   9-15-1997   Annexing 7.81 acres of real estate called Woodspointe
480-97   12-29-1998  Establishing a decree of annexation
538-04   1-3-2005    Annexing certain real estate known as the Henry Harley
                     Johnson property
539-04   2-7-2005    Intending to annex Sheperd’s Meadow Estates
555-06   2-13-2006   Intending to annex the Forest Creek property (rescinded on
                     7-17-2006)
560-06   8-14-2006   Intending to annex the Forest Creek property
561-06   8-14-2006   Intending to annex the Lewallan Trace property
563-06-A 9-11-2006   Intending to annex the Robert Doyle property
568-06   10-9-2006   Intending to annex certain real estate
571-06   12-4-2006   Establishing a decree of annexation
573-A-06 12-11-2006  Intending to annex the Asbury College Farms property
574-06   12-11-2006  Intending to annex the McGuire Farm property
575-06   1-8-2007    Establishing a decree of annexation
579-07   4-9-2007    Establishing a decree of annexation
582-07   6-11-2007   Establishing a decree of annexation
579-07   - -2007     Intending to annex the Francis Asbury Society property
613-09   10-19-2009  Establishing a decree of annexation (Francis Asbury
                     property)
625-10   12-6-2010   Confirming and ratifying prior decrees to annex
652-12   11-19-2012  Annexing Tracts 4, 5 and 6 of the James D. and Cheryl K.
                     Williams property
653-12   11-19-2012  Annexing 44.05 acres, more or less, right-of- way of
                     Harrodsburg Road
654-12   11-19-2012  Annexing 12.01 acres, more or less, right-of- way of
                     Lexington Road
655-12   11-19-2012  Annexing 0.76 acre, more or less, right-of- way of Glass
                     Mill Road
694-16   11-21-2016  Annexing 0.92 acre Forbes property located at 200 Murphy
                     Lane
2021-3   3-15-2021   Annexing unincorporated territory described in Exhibit B
                     of Ord. 2021-3
                     Annexing Tract 1, consisting of 451.82 and Tract 9,
2021-14  10-4-2021   consisting of 141.08 acres, Bicknell Family Limited
                     Partnership
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
206-75    6-6-1975    Adopting an official zoning map
249-81    7-6-1981    Rezoning 2.74 acres, more or less, and one acre, more or
                      less, from A-1 to R-3
424-94    1-9-1995    Changing the official zoning map for 29.8 acres from A-
                      1 to R-2
457-97    9-15-1997   Changing the official zoning for 7.81 acres (Woodspointe)
                      from A-1 to R-1
481-97-98 12-29-1998  Changing the official zoning for 175 acres (Roseglade
                      Farm) from A-1 to R-5
540-05    2-7-2005    Changing the official zoning for 24.221 acres (Harley
                      Johnson property) from A-1 to R-3
542-05    6-6-2005    Changing the official zoning for 4.26 acres (716 East
                      Main Street) from R-2 to R-3
572-06    12-4-2006   Changing the official zoning for 3.73 acres from A-1 to
                      R-1 and 3.14 acres from A-1 to R-1
576-06    1-8-2007    Changing the official zoning for 3.26 acres from B-1 to
                      B-1
577-06    1-8-2007    Changing the official zoning for 89.637 acres of real
                      estate from A-1 to A-1
                      Changing the official zoning for 224.88 acres (Forest
578-06    1-8-2007    Creek) from A-1 to A-1, 200.45 acres from A-1 to R-1 and
                      35.74 acres from A-1 to R-1T (acreage figures corrected
                      by Ordinance 4-19)
580-07    4-9-2007    Changing the official zoning for 204.75 acres (McGuire
                      Farm property) from A-1 to R-1
583-07    6-11-2007   Changing the official zoning for 202.62 acres from A-1 to
                      R-1 and R-3
612-09    10-19-2009  Changing the official zoning for 7.90 (corner of Drake
                      Lane and Lexington Avenue) from A-1 to P-1
614-09    11-2-2009   Changing the official zoning for 5.10 acres (corner of
                      Lexington Avenue and Epworth Avenue) from A-1 to R-3
626-10    12-6-2010   Changing the official zoning for certain real estate
640-12    7-2-2012    Changing the official zoning for 26.1 acres (Asbury
                      Theological Seminary) from A-1 to R-3
652-12    11-19-2012  Changing the official zoning for the James. D and Cheryl
                      K. Williams property from A-1 to R-1
                      Changing the official zoning from A-l to R- 1 for 52.57
                      acres; from A-l to R-1T zone for 15.34 acres; from R-l to
                      A-l for 102.27 acres; from R-1T to A-l for 14.54 acres;
695-16    12-5-2016   from R-1T to R-l for 20.98 acres; and from R-l to R-1T
                      for 25.80 acres, for property located at the northwest
                      corner of US-68 and Murphy Lane (acreage figures
                      corrected by Ordinance 4-19)
                      Changing the official zoning from A-l to R- 1 for 0.92
696-16    12-5-2016   acre Forbes property located at 200 Murphy Lane (acreage
                      figure corrected by Ordinance 4-19)
4-17      6-19-2017   Changing the official zoning from A-1 to P- 1 for 9.02
                      acres for property located at 1125 Lexington Road
                      Correcting inaccurate acreage figures found in Ordinances
                      578-06, 695-16 and 696-16 for the benefit of the official
                      zoning map. The total rezoned acreage to date is 465.96,
4-19      4-1-2019    consisting of: (a) A-1 (Agricultural): 273.10 acres; (b)
                      R-1 (Residential): 151.72 acres; (c) R-1T (Residential):
                      41.14 acres. The rezoned acreage includes the Forbes
                      property, part of the overall development known as Legacy
                      Point.
2021-5    10-4-2021   Changing the official zoning from A-1 to R-1 of the
                      Bicknell Family Limited Partnership
2022-11   12-5-2022   Changing the official zoning from R-1 to A-1 for 8.56
                      acres of property located at 273 Grows Mill
                     
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
37   10-23- Authorizing a franchise for an electric energy distribution system
     1925
39   12-4-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to contract with Kentucky
     1925   Utilities Company for street lighting
97   3-14-  Creating and directing the sale of a 20-year telephone franchise
     1941
98   3-17-  Accepting the bid and granting a 20-year franchise to Lexington
     1941   Telephone Company for a communication system
103C - -    Setting about purchase of electricity distribution system
     1945
118  6-2-   Hiring the law firm of Denny and Kinnaird for legal advice for one
     1948   year
37   10- -  Authorizing a franchise for an electricity distribution system
     1950
38   10- -  Accepting the purchase by J.R. Dorman of an electricity distribution
     1950   system
148  2-6-   Creating and offering for sale a natural gas franchise
     1956
164  7-17-  Advertising for the sale of a telephone exchange franchise
     1961
166  1-30-  Granting a 20-year franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company for an
     1970   electricity distribution system
182  10-30- Granting a 20-year permit to Central Kentucky Cable Vision Inc. for a
     1971   community television and F.M. receiving and distribution system
198  11-6-  Authorizing the Mayor to sign a contract with Asbury College to
     1974   construct a holding pond
201  3-3-   Granting a franchise for an electric distribution system
     1975
210- - -    Creating and offering for sale a gas distribution system franchise
76   1976
296- - -    Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance and
87   1987   investment of public funds
329- 2-20-  Creating a telephone and communications franchise
89   1989
333- 4-3-   Establishing a fee for telephone and communications franchise; payment
89   1989   schedule
334- 6-5-   Accepting a bid from GTE South Inc. for a television and
89   1989   communications franchise
339- 7-3-   Transferring a community antenna television franchise system
89   1989
373- 10-21- Granting a ten-year non-exclusive franchise to Simmons Cable TV of
91   1991   Kentucky-Indiana, Inc. for cable television
400- 11-1-  Cutting and capping water line; agreement with the Lexington- South
93   1993   Elkhorn Water District
414- 8-29-  Granting a 20-year franchise to Rural Electric Cooperative Corporation
94   1994   for an energy distribution system
419- 11-7-  Accepting the bid of GTE South Inc. for a five-year telephone and
94   1994   communications franchise
466- - -    Entering into a cooperative local agreement with the county’s Fiscal
98   1998   Court
507- 3-6-   Entering into a cooperative interlocal agreement for mutual aid with
01   2001   the county’s Fire District
516- 11-5-  Granting a five-year franchise to Frontiervision Operating Partners,
01   2001   LP, d/b/a Adelphia Cable Communications for a cable system
556- 6-5-   Entering into a water agreement with the Jessamine South Elkhorn Water
06   2006   District
670- 8-18-  Creating a franchise for Kentucky Utilities Company for an electric
14   2014   distribution system
675- 5-18-  Providing for the sale of a franchise for telephone and communications
15   2015
680- 7-6-   Accepting a bid from Windstream Kentucky East, LLC, for a telephone
15   2015   and communications franchise
           
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
203-75      4-7-1975    Purchasing Lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of Block C of
                        Lowery Heights Addition from Donald M. and Robbie Joy
656-13      4-1-2013    Acquiring the Wilmore Cemetery
                        Declaring the property located at 335 E. Main Street as
Order No. 1 9-21-2020   surplus property, and authorizing the Mayor to execute
                        a deed transferring the property in accordance with KRS
                        82.083(4)
                        Declaring the property located at 100 Rice Avenue as
Order No. 2 9-21-2020   surplus property, and authorizing the Mayor to execute
                        a deed transferring the property in accordance with KRS
                        82.083(4)
                        Declaring the property located at 101 S. Maple Street
Order No. 3 9-21-2020   as surplus property, and authorizing the Mayor to
                        execute a deed transferring the property in accordance
                        with KRS 82.083(4)
                       
 
TABLE V: STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
45       3-13-1928   Improving several portions of Lexington Avenue; accepting
                     costs and levying taxes
46       3-19-1928   Improving several portions of streets; accepting costs and
                     levying taxes
48       12-14-1928  Improving several portions of streets; accepting costs and
                     levying taxes
49       5-3-1929    Improving several portions of streets; accepting costs and
                     levying taxes
50       5-3-1929    Improving several portions of streets; accepting costs and
                     levying taxes
51       9-6-1929    Improving several portions of streets; accepting costs and
                     levying taxes
                     Providing for the construction of curbs, gutters and
140      6-7-1954    sidewalks on Hughes, Maxey and Kenyon Streets from College
                     Street to Maxey Street and Bellevue Street and elsewhere
150      6-4-1956    Providing for the construction of curbs, gutters and
                     sidewalks on both sides of Bellevue Avenue
195      2-28-1974   Condemning a sanitary sewer easement
196      4-13-1974   Condemning a sanitary sewer easement
                     Closing Jewell Street (from North Lexington Avenue to West
304-87   7-20-1987   Main), Bethel Street (from West Main to Jewell Street) and
                     Hughes Street (from West College to end)
389-93   3-1-1993    Closing Chapelview Drive from Spring Street to Gillespie
                     Street
391-93   4-19-1993   Providing for a fire lane, established on the east side of
                     Belvue Street from West College Street to Maxey Street
416-94   9-19-1994   Authorizing bridge and approach construction over Southern
                     Railroad, 0.2 mile east of Kentucky 29
463-97   - -1997     Granting a conservation easement, referred to as the Trail
                     Easement Area
509-01   6-18-2001   Releasing an undeveloped street right-of-way, known as
                     Fern Street
599-08   11-11-2008  Closing a portion of James Street
628-11   6-20-2011   Closing Broadhurst Drive, Gaile Morris Court and a portion
                     of both Epworth Drive and East Morrison Street
638-12   3-5-2012    Closing a portion of the Johnson Court right-of-way and
                     the dedicated playground in Asbury Estates
648-12   10-1-2012   Closing a portion of Gillespie Street
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                   Code Section
6.955 to 6.975                31.05
Chapter 13B                   115.03
15.409                        37.26
18A.225(2)                    112.03
30B.010                       32.02
Chapter 31                    37.26
Chapter 39B                   32.02
42.450 to 42.495              31.05
Chapter 45A                   37.26
Chapter 56                    37.26
Chapter 58                    31.43
61.168                        37.26
61.870 to 61.884              37.27
61.870(1)                     37.01
61.870(2)                     37.01
61.870(3)                     37.01
61.870(4)                     37.01
61.870(5)                     37.01
61.870(6)                     37.01
61.870(7)                     37.01
61.870(8)                     37.01
61.872(1)-(3)                 37.15
61.872(4)                     37.16
61.872(5)                     37.17
61.872(6)                     37.18
61.874(1)                     37.22
61.874(2)                     37.22
61.874(3)                     37.23
61.874(4)                     37.23
61.874(5)                     37.24
61.874(6)                     37.25
61.878                        37.01
61.878(1)                     37.26
61.878(2)                     37.26
61.878(3)                     37.26
61.878(4)                     37.26
61.878(5)                     37.26
61.880(1)                     37.19,
                              37.26
61.884                        37.21
65.007                        31.41
65.120                        Ch. 71
65.8840                       93.04
65.8840(1)(b)                 93.01
65.8840(1)(e)                 93.01
65.8840(1)(h)                 93.01
65.8840(1)(j)                 93.01
65.8840(3)                    93.04
65.8840(4)                    93.04
65.8840(8)                    93.04
65.8840(9)                    93.04
65.8840(10)                   93.04
65.8840(11)                   93.04
65A.010 to 65A.090            31.42
68.100                        31.43
78.510(21)                    30.03
81.005                        30.18
82.083(4)                     T.S.O. IV
82.620                        71.13
83A.010 to 83A.120            30.04
83A.010(5)                    10.02
83A.010(6)                    10.02
83A.010(8)                    10.02
83A.030(1)                    30.05
83A.045                       30.01
83A.060(1)                    30.60
83A.060(2)                    30.61
83A.060(3)                    30.62
83A.060(4)                    30.63
83A.060(5)                    30.65
83A.060(7)                    30.63
83A.060(8)                    30.66
83A.060(8)(a),(b)             30.67
83A.060(9)                    30.68
83A.060(10)                   30.69
83A.060(11)                   30.70
83A.060(12)                   30.71
83A.060(13)                   30.71
83A.060(14)                   30.72
83A.060(15)                   30.73
83A.065                       10.99
83A.080(1)                    30.30
83A.080(2),(3)                30.30
83A.080(3)                    30.30
83A.085                       30.32
83A.130(1)                    30.04
83A.130(2)                    30.05
83A.130(6)                    30.63
86A.040(1)                    30.17
86A.040(4)                    30.17
Chapter 91A                   31.05
91A.010(4)                    10.02
91A.010(8)                    10.02
91A.030                       31.05
91A.040(1)-(4)                31.05
91A.040(7)-(10)               31.05
91A.350 to 91A.390            31.41,
                              31.43
91A.350                       31.43
91A.390(2)                    31.41
91A.400                       31.43
92.330                        31.43
100.117                       150.01
100.300 to 100.600            30.46
131.010(6)                    112.04
131.190                       37.26
134.800                       31.04
136.120                       111.17
Chapter 151                   150.05
151.250                       150.05
Chapter 154                   30.45,
                              37.26
154.30-050(2)(a)              31.43
154.30-050(2)(a)3.c.          31.43
154.50-301 to 154.50-346      30.45
154.50-316                    30.45
Chapter 154                   30.45,
                              37.26
177.042                       30.33
186.020                       72.03
186.050                       72.03
186A.145                      71.22
186A.190                      71.22
Chapter 189                   72.03
189.080                       72.01
189.286                       72.02
189.286(1)(a)                 72.01
189.450(5)                    71.03
189.450(6)                    71.03
189.456                       71.46
189.725                       71.08
189.820                       72.03
189.920                       33.04
189.990                       71.99
189.990(1)                    71.99
Chapter 198B                  152.36
198B.060(8)                   152.35
198B.070                      152.36
Chapter 218A                  115.04
218A.010                      116.01
Chapter 218B                  116.02
218B.080                      116.01
218B.085                      116.01
218B.090                      116.01
224.20-710 through 224.20-715 72.03
227.550                       93.04
237.115                       131.01
Chapter 238                   115.04
                              115.01,
                              115.03,
Chapters 241 through 244      115.04,
                              115.07,
                              115.08
241.010(37)                   115.02
241.100                       115.03
241.160                       115.03
241.170                       115.03
241.200                       115.04
                              111.17,
Chapter 243                   115.02,
                              115.08
243.030                       115.04
243.036                       115.04
243.040                       115.04
243.070                       115.02
243.075                       115.02
243.090                       115.02
243.200                       115.04
243.230(2)                    115.02
243.260                       115.02
243.450                       115.04
243.480                       115.99
243.490                       115.04
243.500                       115.04
243.550                       115.04
243.895                       115.06
244.050                       115.08
244.085                       115.07
244.085(5)                    115.07
244.087                       115.06
244.090                       115.06,
                              115.07
244.090(2)                    115.06
244.130                       115.11
244.150                       115.03
244.500                       115.06
257.010                       94.01
257.100                       94.07
258.085                       94.29
260.850                       116.01
Chapter 281                   71.21
281.920 through 281.936       71.22
281.926                       71.22
281.928                       71.22
281.928(1)                    71.22
281.932                       71.22
304.49                        72.03
318.990                       152.99
Chapter 342                   112.03
Chapter 350                   150.05
359.230                       71.22
376.275                       71.21,
                              71.22
376.275(1)                    71.22
376.275(2)                    71.22
376.275(2)–(4)              71.22
411.500 through 411.570       Ch. 93
Chapter 424                   31.05
424.120                       31.05,
                              115.04
424.220                       31.05
424.220(6)(b)                 31.05
436.600                       94.05,
                              94.99
446.010(1)                    10.02
446.010(2)                    10.02
446.010(9)                    10.02
446.010(10)                   10.02
446.010(12)                   10.02
446.010(13)                   10.02
446.010(14)                   10.02
446.010(15)                   10.02
446.010(17)                   10.02
446.010(18)                   10.02
446.010(23)                   10.02
446.010(25)                   10.02
446.010(26)                   10.02
446.010(27)                   10.02
446.010(28)                   10.02
446.010(30)                   10.02
446.010(31)                   10.02
446.010(33)                   10.02
446.010(37)                   10.02
446.010(39)                   10.02
446.010(43)                   10.02
446.010(46)                   10.02
446.010(47)                   10.02
446.010(49)                   10.02
446.010(55)                   10.02
446.020(1)                    10.03
446.020(2)                    10.03
446.030                       10.04
446.050                       10.05
446.060                       10.06
446.080(1)                    10.03
446.080(3)                    10.03
446.080(4)                    10.03
446.090                       10.07
446.100                       10.08,
                              10.09
446.140                       10.01
Chapter 500 et seq.           31.43
511.080                       115.08
525.010                       130.02
525.125                       94.03,
                              94.04
                              94.03,
525.130                       94.04,
                              94.99
525.135                       94.04,
                              94.99
534.040(2)(c)                 10.99
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
–         - -         94.11,
                        94.12
1           - -         30.18
2           1-20-1922   131.03,
                        131.99
4           1-20-1922   Ch. 73, Sch. I
5           1-20-1922   130.01,
                        130.99
8           1-20-1922   31.03
37          10-23-1925  T.S.O. III
39          12-4-1925   T.S.O. III
45          3-13-1928   T.S.O. V
46          3-19-1928   T.S.O. V
48          12-14-1928  T.S.O. V
49          5-3-1929    T.S.O. V
50          5-3-1929    T.S.O. V
51          9-6-1929    T.S.O. V
56          1-4-1930    Ch. 74, Sch. I
54          3-21-1930   Ch. 73, Sch. III
55          3-21-1930   Ch. 74, Sch. I
58          7-7-1932    Ch. 74, Sch. I
71          12-4-1936   Ch. 73, Sch. I
88          11-11-1938  95.99
90          9-1-1939    110.12
97          3-14-1941   T.S.O. III
98          3-17-1941   T.S.O. III
103         9-10-1943   30.33
103B        9-1-1944    110.11,
                        110.99
103C        - -1945     T.S.O. III
105B        3-1-1946    T.S.O. I
106         3-16-1946   30.46
113         10-3-1947   95.04,
                        95.99
115         4-21-1948   151.02,
                        151.99
116         4-21-1948   51.02,
                        51.99
118         6-2-1948    T.S.O. III
119         8-26-1948   151.02
88          11-11-1948  95.05
124         11-4-1949   70.03
125         7-7-1950    T.S.O. I
126         7-7-1950    T.S.O. I
37          10- -1950   T.S.O. III
38          10- -1950   T.S.O. III
127         10-6-1950   T.S.O. I
128         10-6-1950   T.S.O. I
132         2-4-1952    T.S.O. I
136         5-4-1953    33.07
139B        5-3-1954    Ch. 74, Sch. I
140         6-7-1954    T.S.O. V
138         6-15-1954   T.S.O. I
141         10-4-1954   T.S.O. I
145         7-4-1955    T.S.O. I
148         2-6-1956    T.S.O. III
150         6-4-1956    T.S.O. V
164         7-17-1961   T.S.O. III
166         1-30-1970   T.S.O. III
178         1-30-1970   T.S.O. I
182         10-30-1971  T.S.O. III
184         1-28-1972   31.02
192         9-30-1973   30.17
195         2-28-1974   T.S.O. V
196         4-13-1974   T.S.O. V
198         11-6-1974   T.S.O. III
199         11-6-1974   33.06
200         11-22-1974  T.S.O. I
202-75      12-10-1974  T.S.O. I
201         3-3-1975    T.S.O. III
203-75      4-7-1975    T.S.O. IV
206-75      6-6-1975    T.S.O. II
207-75      7-7-1975    31.01
208-75      9-16-1975   T.S.O. I
210-76      - -1976     T.S.O. III
214-76      - -1976     70.02
215-76      - -1976     30.15
221-77      4-18-1977   T.S.O. I
224-78      2-20-1978   95.03
226-78      5-15-1978   Ch. 74, Sch. I
227-70      7-10-1978   T.S.O. I
228-78      9-18-1978   T.S.O. I
234-79      6-4-1979    Ch. 73, Sch. II
236-79      7-23-1979   51.01
238-79      10-8-1979   32.01 -
                        32.05
239-79      11-5-1979   33.05
240-80      3-17-1980   151.01
248-81      5-18-1981   50.02
249-81      7-6-1981    T.S.O. II
250-81      7-20-1981   95.02
256-82      3-15-1982   30.31
258-82      12-20-1982  70.01
260-83      5-16-1983   T.S.O. I
262-83      8-15-1983   95.01
267-83      1-16-1984   50.03
268-84      4-16-1984   T.S.O. I
269-84      8-6-1984    T.S.O. I
277-84      11-19-1984  152.03
296-87      - -1987     T.S.O. III
294-87      2-2-1987    Ch. 74, Sch. I
295-87      4-6-1987    33.04
297-87      6-1-1987    T.S.O. I
298-87      6-1-1987    T.S.O. I
299-87      6-1-1987    T.S.O. I
300-87      6-1-1987    T.S.O. I
304-87      7-20-1987   T.S.O. V
309-87      12-1-1987   T.S.O. I
310-88      1-8-1988    94.33
310-88      1-18-1988   94.99
311-88      2-15-1988   T.S.O. I
312-88      2-15-1988   T.S.O. I
313-88      3-21-1988   33.03
314-88      5-16-1988   T.S.O. I
316-88      6-20-1988   152.02
317-88      7-18-1988   T.S.O. I
318-88      7-18-1988   T.S.O. I
319-88      7-18-1988   T.S.O. I
320-88      8-15-1988   T.S.O. I
324-88      10-3-1988   T.S.O. I
326-88      10-24-1988  T.S.O. I
330-89      2-6-1989    131.02,
                        131.99
329-89      2-20-1989   T.S.O. III
331-89      2-20-1989   T.S.O. I
333-89      4-3-1989    T.S.O. III
334-89      6-5-1989    T.S.O. III
339-89      7-3-1989    T.S.O. III
348-90      4-2-1990    T.S.O. I
350-90      5-21-1990   51.03
351-90      6-4-1990    152.33
353-90      7-16-1990   T.S.O. I
359-90      1-7-1991    53.02
362-91      3-4-1991    Ch. 74, Sch. I
364-91      6-17-1991   Ch. 73, Sch. I
372-91      8-26-1991   T.S.O. I
373-91      10-21-1991  T.S.O. III
374-91      12-16-1991  152.16,
                        152.99
379-92      8-17-1992   33.08
385-92      11-16-1992  34.02
386-92      12-21-1992  30.01
387-92      12-21-1992  30.01
389-93      3-1-1993    T.S.O. V
391-93      4-19-1993   T.S.O. V
398-93      8-16-1993   30.45
400-93      11-1-1993   T.S.O. III
402-94      2-7-1994    30.15
403-94      2-7-1994    30.16
410-94      6-17-1994   Ch. 73, Sch. I
404-94      8-29-1994   114.01 -
                        114.09
414-94      8-29-1994   T.S.O. III
416-94      9-19-1994   T.S.O. V
417-94      9-19-1994   50.01
419-94      11-7-1994   T.S.O. III
422-94      12-5-1994   71.13
423-94      12-5-1994   36.01
424-94      1-9-1995    T.S.O. II
426-95      4-10-1995   110.10
431-95      7-3-1995    30.03
436-96      2-12-1996   51.03
438-96      3-4-1996    T.S.O. I
444-96      7-29-1996   33.02
446-96      12-16-1996  131.01
463-97      - -1997     T.S.O. V
450-97      5-19-1997   T.S.O. I
456-97      9-15-1997   T.S.O. I
457-97      9-15-1997   T.S.O. I,
                        T.S.O. II
460-97      9-15-1997   111.01
466-98      - -1998     T.S.O. III
                        91.01 -
468-98      5-11-1998   91.14,
                        91.99
                        51.45 -
479-98      11-2-1998   51.57,
                        51.99
480-97      12-29-1998  T.S.O. I
481-97-98   12-29-1998  T.S.O. II
                        52.001 -
                        52.012,
                        52.025 -
                        52.028,
                        52.040 -
                        52.047,
481-99      2-15-1999   52.060 -
                        52.069,
                        52.085 -
                        52.089,
                        52.100 -
                        52.103,
                        52.115 -
                        52.119
506-01      2-19-2001   94.29,
                        94.99
507-01      3-6-2001    T.S.O. III
509-01      6-18-2001   T.S.O. V
                        152.01,
                        152.15,
510-01      6-18-2001   152.30 -
                        152.32,
                        152.99
513-01      9-17-2001   30.02
516-01      11-5-2001   T.S.O. III
517-02      2-18-2002   34.01
518-02      2-17-2003   50.21
528-03      12-1-2003   90.01 -
                        90.12
537-04      10-4-2004   50.17
538-04      1-3-2005    T.S.O. I
539-04      2-7-2005    T.S.O. I
540-05      2-7-2005    T.S.O. II
542-05      6-6-2005    T.S.O. II
555-06      2-13-2006   T.S.O. I
556-06      6-5-2006    T.S.O. III
560-06      8-14-2006   T.S.O. I
561-06      8-14-2006   T.S.O. I
563-06-A    9-11-2006   T.S.O. I
564-06      9-11-2006   151.15 -
                        151.18
565-05      9-18-2006   31.15 -
                        31.23
568-06      10-9-2006   T.S.O. I
569-06      11-13-2006  50.01
570-06      12-4-2006   51.30 -
                        51.33
571-06      12-4-2006   T.S.O. I
572-06      12-4-2006   T.S.O. II
573-A-06    12-11-2006  T.S.O. I
574-06      12-11-2006  T.S.O. I
579-07      - -2007     T.S.O. I
575-06      1-8-2007    T.S.O. I
576-06      1-8-2007    T.S.O. II
577-06      1-8-2007    T.S.O. II
578-06      1-8-2007    T.S.O. II
579-07      4-9-2007    T.S.O. I
580-07      4-9-2007    T.S.O. II
                        71.45 -
581-07      5-7-2007    71.47,
                        71.99
582-07      6-11-2007   T.S.O. I
583-07      6-11-2007   T.S.O. II
599-08      11-11-2008  T.S.O. V
600-08      12-15-2008  33.01
601-09      6-1-2009    111.99
                        72.01 -
607-09      8-3-2009    72.05,
                        72.99
612-09      10-19-2009  T.S.O. II
613-09      10-19-2009  T.S.O. I
614-09      11-2-2009   T.S.O. II
                        130.02,
                        130.99,
624-10      - -2010     132.01 -
                        132.05,
                        132.99
1-2010      8-16-2010   35.01
622-10      11- -2010   94.10,
                        94.99
623-10      11- -2010   94.09,
                        94.99
625-10      12-6-2010   T.S.O. I
626-10      12-6-2010   T.S.O. II
                        150.01 -
                        150.15,
627-11      6-20-2011   150.30 -
                        150.36,
                        150.99
628-11      6-20-2011   T.S.O. V
636-11      10-3-2011   94.08,
                        94.99
638-12      3-5-2012    T.S.O. V
640-12      7-2-2012    T.S.O. II
644-12      7-2-2012    51.15
645-12      7-2-2012    51.15
648-12      10-1-2012   T.S.O. V
652-12      11-19-2012  T.S.O. I,
                        T.S.O. II
653-12      11-19-2012  T.S.O. I
654-12      11-19-2012  T.S.O. I
655-12      11-19-2012  T.S.O. I
                        93.15 -
647-12      3-4-2013    93.21,
                        93.99
656-13      4-1-2013    T.S.O. IV
659-13      6-24-2013   50.01
662-14      6-16-2014   53.01
                        50.15 -
663-14      6-16-2014   50.22,
                        50.99
                        53.15 -
664-14      6-16-2014   53.22,
                        53.99
670-14      8-18-2014   T.S.O. III
674-15      3-16-2015   112.01 -
                        112.06
675-15      5-18-2015   T.S.O. III
676-15      6-15-2015   50.01
677-15      6-15-2015   50.01
680-15      7-6-2015    T.S.O. III
681-2015    7-6-2015    30.31
684-15      10-19-2015  92.15 -
                        92.19
685-15      10-19-2015  92.01
686-15      10-19-2015  92.02
690-16      6-20-2016   50.01
692-16      11-21-2016  Adopting Ordinance
694-16      11-21-2016  T.S.O. I
695-16      12-5-2016   T.S.O. II
696-16      12-5-2016   T.S.O. II
1-17        6-19-2017   50.01
4-17        6-19-2017   T.S.O. II
5-17        6-19-2017   31.40 -
                        31.43
8-17        10-2-2017   Adopting Ordinance
9-17        10-2-2017   30.31
                        111.15 -
10-17       11-20-2017  111.27,
                        111.99
11-17       12-18-2017  31.43
3-18        7-2-2018    50.01
                        96.01 -
5-2018      11-19-2018  96.03,
                        96.99
1-2019      2-4-2019    152.34,
                        152.35
                        71.45 -
2-19        4-15-2019   71.47,
                        71.99
4-19        4-1-2019    T.S.O. II
7-19        4-1-2019    152.37
11-19       8-5-2019    50.01
12-19       8-19-2019   Adopting Ordinance
17-19       1-6-2020    71.13
3-20        8-3-2020    Adopting Ordinance
4-20        7-20-2020   50.01
5-20        7-20-2020   51.15
6-20        7-20-2020   51.15
Order No. 1 9-21-2020   T.S.O. IV
Order No. 2 9-21-2020   T.S.O. IV
Order No. 3 9-21-2020   T.S.O. IV
2021-1      3-1-2021    94.08
                        115.01 -
2021-2      3-15-2021   115.12,
                        115.98,
                        115.99
2021-3      3-15-2021   T.S.O. I
2021-4      3-15-2021   112.01 -
                        112.06
2021-9      6-21-2021   50.01
2021-10     6-21-2021   51.15
2021-11     6-21-2021   51.15
2021-14     10-4-2021   T.S.O. I
2021-15     10-4-2021   T.S.O. II
2022-4      6-20-2022   53.01
2022-5      6-20-2022   50.01
2022-6      6-20-2022   51.15
2022-7      6-20-2022   51.15
                        115.01 -
2022-8      9-19-2022   115.12,
                        115.98,
                        115.99
2022-11     12-5-2022   T.S.O. II
2023-3      6-19-2023   50.01
2023-4      6-19-2023   51.15
2023-5      6-19-2023   51.15
2024-1      6-17-2024   116.01,
                        116.02
2024-4      7-1-2024    50.01
2024-5      7-1-2024    51.15
2024-6      7-1-2024    51.15
                       
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the City
of Wilmore beginning in September 2020. The table includes links to the
ordinances (as maintained in PDF format) and to the code sections affected
(where applicable). For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to
2020, please contact the City of Wilmore.
 
Jump to:
2020 Ordinances
2021 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
2020 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Adopt. Date                Short Title and Code Sections Affected
7-20     9-29-2020                  Property Tax
8-20     10-8-2020                  Ad Valorem Property Tax
9-20     10-5-2020, eff. 10-15-2020 KRA Fees
 
 
2021 Ordinances
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     Keeping farm animals within city limits
2021-1   3-1-2021     
                     94.08
                     Alcoholic Beverage Control
2021-2   3-15-2021    
                     115.01 - 115.12, 115.98, 115.99
                     Annexation
2021-3   3-15-2021    
                     T.S.O. I
                     License Fee increase for insurance companies
2021-4   3-15-2021    
                     112.01 - 112.06
2021-5   5-3-2021    KRA Fees
2021-6   6-21-2021   Budget
2021-7   6-21-2021   Budget
                     Water and Wastewater Rates increase
2021-9   6-21-2021    
                     50.01
                     High Bridge Water Rate Increase
2021-10  6-21-2021    
                     51.15
                     Southeast County Water Rate Increase
2021-11  6-21-2021    
                     51.15
2021-12  9-20-2021   Ad valorem property tax
2021-13  9-20-2021   Property tax levy
                     Annexation
2021-14  10-4-2021    
                     T.S.O. I
                     Amending Zoning Map
2021-15  10-4-2021    
                     T.S.O. II
 
2022 Ordinances
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2022-1   6-6-2022    Adopting annual budget July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023
2022-2   6-6-2022    Amending annual budget July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023
                     Establishing solid waste collection rates
2022-4   6-20-2022    
                     53.01
                     Increasing water and wastewater rates
2022-5   6-20-2022    
                     50.01
                     Increasing High Bridge water rates
2022-6   6-20-2022    
                     51.15
                     Increasing Southeast County water rates
2022-7   6-20-2022    
                     51.15
                     Alcoholic Beverage Control
2022-8   9-19-2022    
                     115.01 - 115.12, 115.98, 115.99
2022-9   8-15-2022   Property tax levy
2022-10  9-19-2022   Ad valorem property tax
2022-11  11-21-2022  Rezoning
                    
 
 
2023 Ordinances
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2023-1   6-19-2023   Adopting annual budget July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024
2023-2   6-19-2023   Amending FY July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023 budget
                     Increasing water and wastewater rates
2023-3   6-19-2023    
                     50.01
                     Increasing High Bridge water rates
2023-4   6-19-2023    
                     51.15
                     Increasing Southeast County water rates
2023-5   6-19-2023    
                     51.15
2023-7   6-19-2023   Adopting comprehensive pay plan for non-elected city
                     officers and employees
                     Agreement with Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and
R-2023-3 8-7-2023    Lexington Area Metropolitan Planning Organization to
                     accept grant
2023-8   9-18-2023   Levying property tax
2023-9   9-18-2023   Levying ad valorem property tax on all motor vehicles
                    
                    
 
 
 
2024 Ordinances
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     Prohibiting all cannabis business operations in the city
2024-1   6-17-2024    
                     116.01, 116.02
2024-2   --          Amending annual budget July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024
2024-3   6-17-2024   Adopting annual budget July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025
                     Increasing water and wastewater rates
2024-4   7-1-2024     
                     50.01
                     Increasing High Bridge water rates
2024-5   7-1-2024     
                     51.15
                     Increasing Southeast County water rates
2024-6   7-1-2024     
                     51.15
2024-7   7-15-2024   Amending annual budget July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025
                    
 
 
 
