WINDY HILLS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2023 S-2, current through:
Ordinance 23-01, passed 3-13-23; and
State legislation current through KRS 2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Windy Hills Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted.
      (2)   Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Windy Hills irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Windy Hills, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   (1)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act
to be done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the
day on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in
computing the time.
      (2)   If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is
required to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on
which the public office in which the act is required to be completed is
actually and legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none
of the days just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council. A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is
revived by the enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the
same or any subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to
the effective date of the original repealer.
   (B)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (C)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (D)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any
provision of the new ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party
affected, be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
37.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan”, and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120, govern
the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
   
31.05   Defense and indemnification of city officers and employees
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   Reserved
   
31.39   Code Enforcement Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God”, as established by § 228 of the state’s
Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected
city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the
officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed
after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the state’s Constitution,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the state’s Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 135 (1962).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers, officials, and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to
the city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as
security for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s
control. The amount of the bond shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official, or employee handles at any given time
during a fiscal year cycle. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.05 DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ACTION IN TORT. Any claim for monetary damages based upon negligence,
intentional tort, nuisance, products liability, and strict liability, and shall
also include any wrongful death or survival-type action.
      EMPLOYEE. All full- and part-time employees of the city, but shall not
include any independent contractor or any employee, agent, supplier, or
subcontractor of any independent contractor.
      OFFICER. Any elected official of the city, the City Clerk/City
Administrative Officer, City Treasurer, City Attorney, and City Engineer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E) below, the city shall, without cost
to the officer or employee, provide for the legal defense of any officer or
employee, in any action in tort arising out of an act or omission occurring
within the scope of the officer’s or employee’s employment or public duties
with the city.
   (C)   The city may provide for the defense of any officer or employee
through its own legal counsel, by employing independent legal counsel, or by
purchasing insurance which requires the insurer to defend. If the city defends
through its own legal counsel and its legal counsel determines that the
interests of the officer or employee and the city conflict, the city shall
obtain the written consent of the officer or employee for such representation.
An officer or employee may have his own legal counsel to assist in the defense
at the expense of the officer or employee.
   (D)   Upon receiving service of a summons and complaint in any action in
tort brought against him or her, an officer or employee shall, within ten days
of his receipt of service, give written notice of the claim and make a request
that the city provide a defense to the action. The notice of claim and request
for defense shall be filed with the Mayor.
   (E)   The city may refuse to provide for the defense of any action in tort
brought against an officer or employee of the city if it determines and
notifies the officer or employee in writing that:
      (1)   The act or omission was not within the actual or apparent scope of
the officer’s duties or employee’s employment;
      (2)   The officer or employee acted or failed to act because of fraud,
malice, or corruption; or
      (3)   A timely request to defend was not made in accordance with division
(D) above.
   (F)   If the city refuses to provide an officer or employee with a defense
and the officer or employee provides his or her own defense, the officer or
employee shall be entitled to recover all necessary and reasonable costs of the
defense from the city if the act or omission is judicially determined to have
arisen out of the actual or apparent scope of the officer’s duties or the
employee’s employment and the officer or employee is found to have acted
without fraud, malice, or corruption.
   (G)   Subject to the limitations set forth in division (H) below, and
provided that the city shall not pay any award of punitive or exemplary
damages, the city shall pay any judgment rendered against an officer or
employee in any action in tort, or any compromise or settlement of such action.
   (H)   The city may refuse to pay any judgment, compromise, or settlement in
any action in tort against an officer or employee, or if the city pays any
judgment, compromise, or settlement, it may recover from the officer or
employee the amount of such payment and the costs to defend, if:
      (1)   The officer or employee acted or failed to act because of fraud,
malice, or corruption;
      (2)   The action was outside the actual or apparent scope of the
officer’s duties or the employee’s employment;
      (3)   The officer or employee willfully failed or refused to assist the
defense of the action; or
      (4)   The officer or employee compromised or settled the claim without
the consent of the City Council.
   (I)   An officer or employee who is being provided a defense in an action in
tort or contract by the city shall not enter into any compromise or settlement
of the action without the approval of the City Council.
   (J)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as a waiver of any defense
which the city may assert in any action in tort brought against it or any
officer or employee of the city. Defense by the city of any action shall not be
deemed an admission by the city that the acts of the officer or employee were
within the actual or apparent scope and course of such person’s office or
duties.
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Ch. 116 through Ch. 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Ch. 83A. The ordinance shall
become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the
election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the
County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any
city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of
Mayor and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be effective at the
next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring after the date
specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and shall require each department to
make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this division
(D)(8) within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the disability of the
Mayor to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the
office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and
the provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Qualifications;
      (4)   Salary;
      (5)   Term of office; and
      (6)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   Appointment. All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor and shall be with approval of City Council.
   (C)   Removal. All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will
unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a
nonelected officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a written
statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this
requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal
power of the Mayor.
   (D)   Oath. Prior to entering office, all nonelected officers must take the
oath prescribed by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
(Ord. 22-02, passed 12-12-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.085, there is hereby created a nonelective city
office to be known as the office of City Clerk.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be appointed by the City Council at the January
meeting of even numbered years for a term of two years, expiring on December 31
of odd numbered years, or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall be at least 21 years of age and of good moral
character, and shall possess such professional training and experience to
ensure competent performance of the duties of the office. Residency within the
city shall not be required, although residents shall be preferred.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 to KRS 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used; and
      (4)   Performance of all duties and responsibilities required of a City
Clerk by statute or ordinance.
   (E)   The salary of the City Clerk is hereby fixed by the City Council in a
duly adopted pay classification ordinance, or as otherwise provided by the City
Council.
   (F)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the City Clerk shall
execute bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties,
including the duties of all offices of which he or she is ex-officio incumbent.
The amount and sufficiency of such bond shall be approved by the City Council.
The bond of the City Clerk shall be filed with the City Council.
   (G)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the City Clerk shall take
the oath prescribed by the state’s Constitution § 228 for city officials.
(Ord. 10-04, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.085, there is hereby created a nonelective city
office to be known as the office of City Treasurer.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City Council at the
January meeting of even numbered years for a term of two years, expiring on
December 31 of odd numbered years, or until a successor is appointed and
qualified.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall be at least 21 years of age and of good moral
character, and shall possess such professional training and experience to
ensure competent performance of the duties of the office. Residency within the
city shall not be required, although residents shall be preferred.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Treasurer shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Receive and safely keep all city funds belonging to the city. Such
funds shall be kept in an official depository designated by the City Council;
      (2)   Keep an accurate and complete account of all the receipts and
expenditures of the city, showing amounts, when, from whom, to whom, and for
what purpose all city funds were received or paid out;
      (3)   Disburse city funds by written authorization approved by the City
Council, which shall state the name of the person to whom funds are payable,
the purpose of the payment, and the fund out of which such funds are payable;
      (4)   Make quarterly settlements with the City Clerk, and prepare a
statement showing the receipts and expenditures of the city for the preceding
quarter and the amount remaining in each fund in the treasury which, when
approved by the City Council, shall be spread at large upon the record;
      (5)   Make monthly reports to the City Council showing the state of the
finances of the city, and the amounts received and spent during the month,
which reports shall be filed;
      (6)   Make an annual report at the close of the fiscal year with the
total amount of all receipts and expenditures of the city and the transactions
during the preceding year; and
      (7)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor or City
Council.
   (E)   The salary of the City Treasurer shall be fixed by the city
compensation plan adopted by ordinance, or as otherwise directed by the City
Council.
   (F)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the City Treasurer shall
execute bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties,
including the duties of all offices of which he or she is ex-officio incumbent.
The amount and sufficiency of such bond shall be approved by the City Council.
The bond of the City Treasurer shall be filed with the City Council.
   (G)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the City Treasurer shall
take the oath prescribed by the state’s Constitution § 228 for city officials.
   (H)   The City Council may combine the offices of City Clerk and City
Treasurer by appointing the same person to fill both positions.
(Ord. 10-05, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 31.38 RESERVED.
§ 31.39 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Enforcement. There is hereby created the nonelective office of Code
Enforcement Officer,for the City of Windy Hills.
   (B)   Term. The Code Enforcement Officer shall hold office for the term of
one year beginning on the second Monday of January.
   (C)   Oath. Before entering office, the Code Enforcement Officer shall take
the oath as prescribed by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (D)   Bond. The Code Enforcement Officer shall not be required to post bond.
   (E)   Qualifications. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be at least 21
years of age and of good moral character, and shall possess such professional
training and experience to ensure competent performance of the duties of the
office. Residency within the city shall not be required, although residents
shall be preferred. No person who has been convicted of a felony is eligible
for appointment.
   (F)   Salary. The salary of the city Code Enforcement Officer is fixed by
ordinance, or as otherwise directed by the City Council. The current salary is
fixed by Municipal Order #2, Series 2015/2016.
   (G)   Powers and duties. The city Code Enforcement Officer shall have the
same powers as those belonging to a citation officer set forth in KRS 83A.087.
The powers and duties of a Code Enforcement Officer shall include the
following:
      (1)   The power to issue citations upon observance of non-moving motor
vehicle offenses;
      (2)   The power to issue citations upon observance of violations of
ordinances except for moving motor vehicle offenses and except for offenses
which constitute a violation of the state’s Penal Code;
      (3)   Know the city’s codes;
      (4)   Make periodic inspections throughout the city;
      (5)   Meet with residents to resolve issues pertaining to interpretation
of the codes;
      (6)   Recommend liens when appropriate; and
      (7)   Report to the City Council monthly.
   (H)   Limitations on powers. The Code Enforcement Officer shall not have the
powers of a peace officer to make arrests or carry deadly weapons. Nothing
contained herein shall limit the power of a Code Enforcement Officer to make an
arrest as a private person as provided in KRS 431.005.
(Ord. 4 S2018/2019, passed 12-31-2018; Ord. 22-04, passed 12-12-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see §
38.01
   Establishment of nonelected city offices, see §
31.35
Statutory reference:
   Nonelective city offices and officers, KRS 83A.080
   Citation officers; powers; restrictions, KRS 83A.087
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City officials, see
Chapter 31
   Code of Ethics, see
Chapter 37
   Mayor-Council Plan, see
Chapter 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   Each Council member shall be elected at large by the voters of the
city at a regular election.
      (2)   A candidate for Council shall be a resident of the city for not
less than one year prior to his or her election.
      (3)   Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall
immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State
of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the elected Council of the city. The Council shall not perform any executive
functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities
of city government.
      (2)   The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties.
      (3)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (4)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council.
      (2)   The Council may set, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its
number may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in place of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meeting.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second
Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   Regular meetings shall be held at Sojourn East located at 2501 Rudy
Lane.
      (3)   Special meetings may be called as provided by law.
   (B)   Business meeting.
      (1)   Business meetings of the City Council shall be held at 10:00 a.m.
on the Friday before the regular meeting.
      (2)   Business meetings shall be held at City Hall, currently at Summit
Executive Suites, 4350 Brownsboro Road.
      (3)   No final action shall be taken at a business meeting.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 10-10-2005; Ord. 11-01, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 23-01,
passed 3-13-2023)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled:
“Be it ordained by the City of Windy Hills.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and
ordinances to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section
indicating any text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it.
   (B)   Text that is intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning
with an opening bracket and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between
the brackets shall be stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance
shall be enacted until it has been read on two separate days.
      (2)   The reading of an ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title
and reading a summary rather than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   (1)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance.
      (2)   Publication requirements of §
32.38 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(D) and
32.37, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city.
      (2)   The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official
record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS Ch.
424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
state and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   (1)   Council may adopt municipal orders.
      (2)   All municipal orders shall be in writing and may be adopted only at
an official meeting.
      (3)   Orders may be amended by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance.
      (4)   All orders adopted shall be maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Grant Application Procedure
   
33.40   Application and approval
   
33.41   Determination
   
33.42   Prohibited grants
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Council, see
Chapter 32
   City officials, see
Chapter 31
   Taxation, see
Chapter 35
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, no monies shall be expended from any governmental
or proprietary fund except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may be in any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the state’s Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant
for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the audit requirements in division (A) above, a city with a
population of equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the most recent federal
decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every other fiscal year
in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd-numbered year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes no later than April 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division (C) shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and immediately forward one electronic or paper copy to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
subsection shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which the attestation engagement is required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biannual
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Ch. 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds”, which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any city may utilize the alternative publication methods authorized by
KRS 424.190(2) to comply with the provisions of this section.
(KRS 91A.040) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the state. The amount of funds on deposit in an official depository
shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in accordance
with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations, including
surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   (1)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which
the city is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in
a manner authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All
city funds shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor
which states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of
the payment, and the fund out of which the funds are payable.
      (2)   Each authorization shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, and
mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Ch. 424 and shall mail by certified mail
to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with the
project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the
property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
GRANT APPLICATION PROCEDURE
§ 33.40 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   No funding request from any organization may be considered unless and
until a full, accurate, and complete grant funding application is filed with
the city.
   (B)   No funding request will be considered from any for-profit
organization. No funding request will be considered if the city is prohibited
by state law from sending money for the requested good or service.
   (C)   Once a full and complete application, from a non-profit group, for a
legal expenditure of city funds, is received by the city, the Council members
will be given a full copy of the application prior to the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 33.41 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Council may only approve a grant application which first meets the
following test of public purpose:
      (1)   The expenditure must confer a direct benefit of reasonably general
character to a significant part of the city public, as distinguished from a
remote or theoretical benefit;
      (2)   The receiving organization must provide services that are for the
general good and welfare of city citizens; and
      (3)   The grant must have as its objective the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, general welfare, security, prosperity, and contentment
of all, or at least a substantial part of city inhabitants or residents.
   (B)   (1)   The Council must further make a determination that there are
adequate safeguards in place to make sure that the receiving organization uses
the grant request for the particular public purpose found by the city.
      (2)   Where possible, the city should be provided invoices for
application of the grant funds directly to the vendor of the material,
equipment, goods, or services which are being provided to the public.
   (C)   The Council may only approve a grant application through the adoption
of a municipal order at a regular monthly meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 33.42 PROHIBITED GRANTS.
   The city does hereby find that the following type of grant requests are not
sufficiently related to a public purpose and are therefore prohibited:
   (A)   Any grant request which could be construed as a payment of a personal
bill for a city resident, as opposed to the support of a community-wide program
or initiative;
   (B)   Any grant request which could be construed as support of a particular
business or industry; and
   (C)   Any grant request which funds any facility that is not open to the
general public.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all
proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident
bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Inspection of public records
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of Windy Hills.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN. 
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. 
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. 
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the state from state or local authority funds. However,
any funds derived from a state or local authority in compensation for goods or
services that are provided by a contract obtained through a competitive
procurement process shall not be included in the determination of whether a
body is a PUBLIC AGENCY under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this division; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this division; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
PUBLIC AGENCY is defined in this division.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e..
(KRS 61.870(10))
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
§ 34.02 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.870 to 61.884, the public is notified that, as
provided herein, the public records of the city are open for inspection by any
person on written application to the City Clerk, whose address is City of Windy
Hills, Summit Executive Suites, Ste. 110, 4350 Brownsboro Road, Louisville, KY,
40207, from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, each week, except
holidays. Application forms for the inspection of public records of the city
will be furnished, on request, to any person by an employee in this office.
Assistance in completing the application form will be provided by an employee
on request. The request to inspect must identify and describe the records with
sufficient particularity. The written application may be delivered by hand,
mailed, or sent by facsimile.
   (B)   Applications for the inspection of public records shall be advised of
the availability of the records requested for inspection, and shall be notified
in writing not later than three working days after receipt of an application
for inspection of any reason the records requested are not available for public
inspection.
   (C)   Copies of written material in the public records of the city shall be
furnished to any person requesting them for a non-commercial purpose, on
payment of a fee of $0.10 per page: copies of non-written records (photographs,
maps, material stored in computer files or libraries, and the like) shall be
furnished on request, on payment of a charge equal to the actual cost of
producing copies of such records by the most economic process not likely to
damage or alter the record.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 8-14-2006)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant,
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail, or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   (1)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the
city, suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City
Clerk or in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian
or custodian for the inspection.
      (2)   No person shall remove original copies of public records from the
offices of the city without the written permission of the official custodian of
the record.
      (3)   When public records are inspected at the city offices, the person
inspecting the records shall have the right to make abstracts and memoranda of
the public records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When
copies are requested, the custodian may require advance payment of the
prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision.
   (B)   Any agency response denying, in whole or in part, inspection of any
record shall include a statement of the specific exception authorizing the
withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the exception applies
to the record withheld.
   (C)   The response shall be issued by the official custodian or under his or
her authority and shall constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make
abstracts of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of
all public records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26.
      (2)   When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written
request and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where
appropriate.
      (3)   If the applicant desires copies of public records other than
written records, the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or
permit the applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall
ensure that the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one- half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on
white paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American
Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency
maintains electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the
format conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be
provided in this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by
the public agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the
forms described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio,
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the state. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s Attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)    Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under state law;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage, and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the state’s office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the state’s General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law; and
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for the person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(6))
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes before November 1 shall be
entitled to up to a 40% discount thereon, and the Clerk shall allow the
discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10%, plus 12% interest, on the taxes due and unpaid.
The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any
action taken by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities.
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810, and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
CHAPTER 36: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Tree Board
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Term of office
   
36.03   Operation
   
36.04   City Arborist
   
36.05   Annual tree work plan
   
36.06   Other assignments
   
36.07   Arbor Day
   
36.08   Budget
   
36.09   Review by City Council, right to appeal
Code Enforcement Board
   
36.20   Definitions
   
36.21   Creation and membership
   
36.22   Enforcement powers
   
36.23   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
36.24   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
36.25   Conflict of interest
   
36.26   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
36.27   Enforcement proceedings
   
36.28   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
36.29   Presentation of cases
   
36.30   Appeals; final judgement
   
36.31   Ordinance fine
   
36.32   Lien; fines, charges, and fees
   
36.33   Lienholder notification system
   
36.34   Liens
   
36.35   Immediate action
TREE BOARD
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Tree Board for the city, which shall consist
of seven voting members who are citizens and residents of this city, and an
eighth non-voting member of the City Council. The eight members shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. Members of the
Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012; Ord. 4 S13-14, passed 2-10-2014)
§ 36.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the seven Tree Board members shall be three years, except that
the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board shall be for only
one year and the term of two members of the first Board shall be for two years.
In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or
her successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for the unexpired portion of the
term. The Tree Board may also organize and recruit committees of non-Board
members to implement the Board’s programs.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 36.03 OPERATION.
   The Tree Board shall choose its officers and make its own rules and
regulations. It shall meet (at least once annually and when necessary) and keep
a record of its proceedings. A majority of the five voting members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business. The Tree Board reports to the Mayor and
the City Council.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012; Ord. 3 S16-17, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 36.04 CITY ARBORIST.
   The city shall retain the services of a certified licensed arborist to
advise and assist the Tree Board with its duties and responsibilities described
in this subchapter, with a cost not to exceed $3,000 per year. The arborist
shall be certified through the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA),
the Tree Care Industry Association (TCIA), the Society of Municipal Arborists
(SMA), or the American Society of Consulting Arborists (ASCA). This arborist or
any company associated with him or her shall not perform any trimming, pruning,
or removals for the city.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 36.05 ANNUAL TREE WORK PLAN.
   The Tree Board shall study, develop, update annually, and administer a
written annual tree work plan with an estimate of its cost. The plan shall
address species diversity, planting needs, hazardous trees, insect and disease
problems, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition
of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas, and a
pattern of regular care such as pruning and watering. The plan will be
presented annually to the City Council for its review, acceptance, and
approval.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 36.06 OTHER ASSIGNMENTS.
   The Tree Board may be assigned by the City Council to research, investigate,
consider, make findings, report, and recommend upon any other matters of
question coming with the scope of its work
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 36.07 ARBOR DAY.
   The city shall have an annual observance of Arbor Day, for which the Tree
Board shall make a proclamation and hold a celebratory ceremony such as
presentation of award or planting of a tree.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 36.08 BUDGET.
   The annual tree work plan and Arbor Day observance shall be carried out with
an annual budget of at least $2 per capita according to the most recent census.
The cost of a City Arborist shall not be included in this budget.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 36.09 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL, RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   The City Council may review the conduct, acts, and decisions of the Tree
Board. Any owner has the right to appeal any ruling or order of the Tree Board
to the City Council, who may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 36.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. The city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8838, or joint authority by virtue of having in place an Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement to perform and enforce the duties of a code enforcement
board.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An officer of the city pursuant to §
31.39.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with §
36.28(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
36.27(F); or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
36.28(C).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An action of the city made pursuant to §
32.30.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.21 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8838 within the
city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than three
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least
one year prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout
the term in office and shall be at least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.22 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of an ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.23 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of City Council.
   (D)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of City Council, two
alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board in the absence of
regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of the City Council, within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is
not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board
members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Code Enforcement Board member may be removed from office by the
Mayor for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall
submit a written statement to the member and City Council setting forth the
reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to
the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.24 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
third Wednesday of every month if there is business to be undertaken. Meetings
other than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency
meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings
Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   City Council shall provide clerical and administrative personnel for
the proper conduct of the duties of the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.25 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, disqualify himself from voting on the matter in which
he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.26 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Windy Hills Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this subchapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
code enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chair shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.27 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
36.35, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a
specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If
the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time
specified, the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation.
   (G)   If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the
citation, and the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the
final order to District Court. Notice of the final order shall be delivered to
the cited violator by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt
requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.28 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (D)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (E)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by ordinance
or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a fine, or
both.
   (G)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to writing,
which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date the order
was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the citation.
   (H)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class mail;
certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.29 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The city attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Board,
but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.30 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
36.28(E) may be made to the Jefferson County District Court within 30 days of
the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (A) of this section, the order shall be deemed
final for all purposes.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.31 ORDINANCE FINE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the City Code Enforcement
Board may be subject to the penalty sections of any individual ordinance
violated.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.32 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   If the Code Enforcement Board, or assigned, finds that there is a
violation of the city ordinances, the Code Enforcement Board shall have the
discretion to require compliance, in addition to the fines set out in §
36.31. In addition, it is within the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board
to find that each day of non-compliance after said finding will constitute the
imposition of another fine for each day's violation, up to the following
maximums: on first violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is
$1,000. On second violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is
$2,000. On third violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is
$3,000.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order of the code enforcement officer or Board, or by a
final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance.
The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of the code enforcement
officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and
regularity of the proceedings pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the Jefferson County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years
following the date of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to §
36.34, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed herein of this section, the
person found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible
for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.33 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
36.32, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the code enforcement officer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and
update the required contact information with the city. The city shall inform a
registrant of any evidence received that the electronic mailing address is
invalid or not functional so that the registrant may provide an updated
electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it is
ascertainable;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   The city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post this notification required by division (D)
of this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement database in
a conspicuous space on the city web site, at the same time that it provides the
electronic notification.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.34 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
36.33(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
36.33(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
36.35.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
36.32 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
36.33 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (E) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the
county clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with § 36.33 and this section, or
failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in
division (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any other remedies
the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 36.35 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 37: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Title
   
37.002   Findings
   
37.003   Purpose and authority
   
37.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
37.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
37.016   Conflicts of interests in contracts
   
37.017   Receipt of gifts
   
37.018   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
37.019   Representation of interests before city government
   
37.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
37.021   Post-employment restrictions
   
37.022   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
37.035   Who must file
   
37.036   When to file statements; amended statements
   
37.037   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
37.038   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
37.039   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
37.040   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
37.055   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
37.070   Board of Ethics created
   
37.071   Alternate members
   
37.072   Facilities and staff
   
37.073   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
37.074   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
37.075   Notice of hearings
   
37.076   Hearing procedure
   
37.077   Appeals
   
37.078   Limitation of actions
   
37.079   Advisory opinions
   
37.080   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
37.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Windy Hills
Code of Ethics”.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.002 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trust;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standard which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The city’s of Board of Ethics, which is created and vested
by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Windy Hills, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Council member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The City Treasurer;
      (5)   The City Manager;
      (6)   The City Administrator (Administrative Officer);
      (7)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (8)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 37.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself, herself, or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family member
has a financial interest; and
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.016 CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
   (A)   The prohibition in this section shall not apply to contracts entered
into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for the city office, before
an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or before
an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any contract
entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or she
became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee, is
renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office, or
is hired as an employee, the prohibition in this section shall apply to the
renewal of the contract.
   (B)   (1)   The prohibition in this section shall not apply if the contract
is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or
employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded.
      (2)   If the officer or employee has any of the authorities set forth in
the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no interest in
the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (C) below are
satisfied.
   (C)   The prohibition in this section shall not apply in any case where the
following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
      (2)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
      (3)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city agency
that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the
public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other
specific reasons; and
      (4)   The finding is made part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city agency shall directly, or indirectly
through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift having a fair
market value of more than $200, whether in the form of money, service, loan,
travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the officer
or employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.019 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other manner pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course or his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.021 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.022 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $200 in
consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech, or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s
service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 37.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates far elected city office;
   (C)   Member of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (D)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $100.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.036 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this
subchapter shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no
later than 30 days after the effective date of this chapter. All subsequent
statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than January 31 of
each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.037 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 1 of each year. The
failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a
copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian”, as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing. Until changed by the
Board of Ethics, the City Clerk is hereby named the “designated administrative
official” and the “custodian” for all purposes under this chapter.
   (B)   A statement of financial interest shall be retained by the Board or
the designated administrative official for such periods as are prescribed by
the state’s Archives and Records Commission, or in default of such regulation,
for a period of three years.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.039 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like); provided, however, the
filer may list for himself or herself and the filer’s immediate family, as a
single item, dividends and interest on stocks and bonds listed and customarily
sold or traded on national or regional suck exchanges;
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the city, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $200 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year, and excluding
gifts from sources which have not done any business with the city in the past
five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in the
next three years; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income, nor to require
the listing under divisions (A)(5) or (A)(6) above of stock or bond ownership
of stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold or traded on national or
regional stock exchanges where the company has not done business with the city
for the past five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the
city in the next three years.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.040 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
NEPOTISM
§ 37.055 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
September 1, 1994, nor to seasonal, temporary, or part-time employment, or
where the employment relationship is approved in an open meeting by one more
than a majority of the City Council.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 37.070 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of not less than one nor more than
five members who shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the
approval of the City Council. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall
be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of
the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or
unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city agency. The
members shall serve for a term of three years; except that when the Board
consists of more than one member, appointments shall be made for one, two, or
three years as designated in the appointment so as to create staggered terms.
All terms shall expire on December 31 of the designated year. Each member of
the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for a least one year
prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout
the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by
virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be reappointed for any
number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the City Council for misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the City
Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the City Council. If a vacancy
is not so filled within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of Ethics
shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the City Council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meeting of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of a number of members equal to a quorum shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of
Ethics who has a conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be
considered by the Board shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall
disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter, and shall not be
counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.071 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the City Council,
may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon
to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her
duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the
requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.072 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Council in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.073 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board, to the extent allowed
by law;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the City Council, the governing body of any
city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body, as
necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the state’s Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870 to 61.884;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or City Council of the
city; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.074 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant under oath, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge
receipt of a complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date
of receipt. The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence in
city government, issue, in writing, a reprimand to the officer or employee
concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the reprimand to the
executive authority and governing body of the city or city agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.075 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.076 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The state’s Rules of Civil Procedure and the state’s Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence of its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross- examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who files the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.077 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.078 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
    Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.079 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the state’s Open
Records Act, being KRS 61.870 to 61.884, to establish criteria under which it
will issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be
public documents, except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of as advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violation of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.080 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be subject
to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the state any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to
the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain
which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a
result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the
amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the state.
   (D)   Any violation of §
37.016 shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court
may void any contract entered into in violation of §
37.016, additionally, a violation of §
37.016 shall be grounds for removal from office or employment with the city in
accordance with any applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules,
or regulations of the city.
   (E)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under §
37.040(A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under §
37.040 may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if
the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency, in violation of §
37.074, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-12-1994)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Uncovered garbage
   
50.03   Wind-blown refuse
   
50.04   Collection by city
   
50.05   Time for placement and removal
   
50.06   Hot ashes
   
50.07   Deposit in city
   
50.08   Fees for new construction
City to Provide Services
   
50.20   Pick-up schedule
Regulations
   
50.35   Hours of operation
   
50.36   Definition
   
50.37   Presumption of liability on owner of truck
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and
consumption of food; waste from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings; non-combustible trash
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, dirt, small quantities of rock
and pieces of concrete, glass, mineral waste, ashes, and rubbish.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 50.02 UNCOVERED GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit or remain anywhere in the city any
garbage, or other materials subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
excepting in a tightly covered container.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 WIND-BLOWN REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes, or
trash of such a material that can be blown away by the wind anywhere in the
city, excepting in a covered container.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 COLLECTION BY CITY.
   (A)   The city shall, by contract, have charge of the collection of garbage
and refuse in the city under contract with a garbage collection firm.
   (B)   Such garbage collection firm shall pick up on a regularly scheduled
basis no less than once each week up to three 30-gallon containers from a
reasonable location convenient to the resident from each single-family
residence and condominium in the city, plus shrubbery trimmings in reasonable
amounts placed at the street curbing in containers or in tied bundles not
exceeding four feet in length.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 50.05 TIME FOR PLACEMENT AND REMOVAL.
   No garbage or refuse, including shrubbery trimmings, grass clippings, or
other materials for pick-up by the garbage collector, shall be placed at the
curbing, or in the front yard of any residence, prior to noon on the day before
the next regularly scheduled pick-up day for that residence and no such garbage
or refuse, or containers therefor, shall be permitted to remain at the curbing
or in the front yard of any residence after 7:00 p.m. on such collection day.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 HOT ASHES.
   No person shall place any ashes in any container for removal by the garbage
collection firm until all such ashes have cooled to room temperature.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 DEPOSIT IN CITY.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to be deposited or stored in the
city any garbage or refuse, except that the owner, occupant, or tenant of
property in the city may store such garbage or refuse as is generated by the
normal legal use of his, her, or its property thereon only for such time as is
required for normal pick-up and disposal.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 FEES FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any person who owns real estate situated within the city on which
improvements are constructed during a calendar year which are not assessed at
full value for city tax purposes for that year payable during such year, shall,
upon completion of such improvements and use thereof, or upon annexation by the
city and upon request by the City Council, pay to the city the then current
monthly cost to the city of furnishing regular garbage collection services and
fire protection to said property.
   (B)   The payment provided in division (A) above shall be made for the
remainder of such year and the obligation of the owner to pay the charges
aforesaid shall terminate upon payment of the city real estate taxes assessed
and payable with respect to any subsequent year.
(Ord. 85, passed 11-12-1973)
CITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES
§ 50.20 PICK-UP SCHEDULE.
   The city shall provide garbage collection service to all residences within
the city on a basis of two pick-ups per week, with each residence limited to
not more than three 30-gallon cans per collection.
REGULATIONS
§ 50.35 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity of garbage collection,
including dumpster type collection, within the city between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 92-04, passed 9-14-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE COLLECTION. Includes any of the following activities:
      (1)   Emptying of cans into a garbage collection truck;
      (2)   Loading, unloading, maneuvering, positioning, or emptying a
dumpster or other type of container; and
      (3)   Using a garbage collection truck to compact garbage by any process.
(Ord. 92-04, passed 9-14-1992)
§ 50.37 PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY ON OWNER OF TRUCK.
   The registered owner of a garbage collection truck being used in violation
of §
50.35 shall be prima facie evidence of ownership of the vehicle and of
violation of this subchapter by such owner.
(Ord. 92-04, passed 9-14-1992)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deeded committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. The fact that garbage or refuse remains on any
occupant’s premises in this city in violation of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall be prima facie evidence that the occupant of such premises is
responsible for the violation occurring.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the terms of §§
50.35 through
50.37 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for
each offense and each collection container so collected in violation of §§
50.35 through
50.37 shall be deemed a separate offense, and each day on which an offense
occurs shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense for which a separate
fine may be levied.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
50.35 through
50.37 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to the
minimum fine prescribed by division (C)(1) above. Such civil penalty may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for
the violation. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to, or in
conjunction with, the criminal penalties authorized in division (C)(1) above.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 92-04, passed 9-14-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution”, or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city.
   (B)   All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform, and as far as
possible shall be placed uniformly.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey
the signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with
the provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by
any of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier or
sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.30   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.31   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over firehose
   
71.32   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Permit required
   
71.47   Application for permit
   
71.48   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.49   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.50   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.51   Alternative permit
   
71.52   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.53   Contents of permit
   
71.54   Duties of permittee
   
71.55   Public conduct during parades
   
71.56   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   (1)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.
      (2)   Should the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked
when there is insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to
accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal
notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this division
rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the
vehicle at any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.
   (B)   A vehicle from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in
such manner as to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful
direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at a low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.30 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a street and/or highway within the
corporate boundaries of the city shall operate the vehicle in a careful manner
with regard for the safety and conveniences of pedestrians, other vehicles upon
the streets and/or highways.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any street and/or
highway within the corporate boundaries of the city in such a manner as to
injure the street or highway.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-11-1954) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle,
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in
that position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.50 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.51 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance.
   (C)   An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of and
shall have the effect of a parade permit under this subchapter.
§ 71.52 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.53 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.55 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
§ 71.56 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who operates a vehicle and any owner who knows or consents
to the operation of his or her vehicle in violation of either or both of the
provisions of §
71.30 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (Ord. 9, passed 1-11-1954)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Prohibited parking locations
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Reserved
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
   
72.43   Parking after snowfall
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   (1)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except
that wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes.
      (2)   This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all times and on
all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed interferes with the
use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road space within ten feet of
the centerline of the street.
   (D)   (1)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places,
requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a
certain portion of the roadway adjacent thereto.
      (2)   However, diagonal parking shall not be established where the
roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet of the centerline of
any street.
      (3)   The diagonal parking places shall be designated by suitable signs,
and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required angle and the width
of the roadway space within which the vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited.
         (a)   Whenever under authority of or by this traffic code, or any
other ordinance, any parking limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, or parking areas are restricted to handicapped parking,
appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
         (B)   However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction
therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking
is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall
provide suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting
parking on that particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any
street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.25 through
72.27
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking. It shall be unlawful to
park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on
any section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the
city not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.
   (B)   However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor
vehicle bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk
pursuant to appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when
operated by a handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may
be parked in a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a
metered parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked
where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the
parking limit.
      (2)   The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period
of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or
from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PROHIBITED PARKING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any motor vehicle to stand
on any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
traffic or in compliance with directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device:
      (1)   In any intersection or within 30 feet thereof;
      (2)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal or sign on the approaching side;
      (3)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 16 feet;
      (4)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
      (5)   On any sidewalk or traffic island or upon the unpaved portion of
any public right-of-way within the city; and/or
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked with its left side next to the edge of the
roadway, except on one-way streets.
   (C)   No person shall park any vehicle on any street for a period of time
longer than ten minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any
day.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property or upon any unpaved area on
private property.
   (E)   The fact that any automobile which is illegally parked is registered
in the name of a person, firm, or corporation shall be considered prima facie
proof that such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such
parking.
   (F)   The restrictions contained herein shall not apply to emergency or
police vehicles when in use on official business or pursuant to KRS 189.940.
(Ord. 92, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 104, passed 7-10-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle- related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
§ 72.26 RESERVED.
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
who has complied with the notification requirements of state law, shall have a
lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275
(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance with
state law, as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)    (1)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in accordance with state law have not been paid, the motor
vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be sold to
pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified by
certified mail at the addresses specified in state law, ten days prior to the
time and place of the sale.
      (2)   If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section
are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale and collection of
proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment
of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle.
      (3)   This lien shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released
by any existing lienholder.
   (C)   (1)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the state shall be notified by certified mail within the first ten
days of impoundment in accordance with state law. Such notification, in
addition to the requirements of state law, shall include the make, model,
license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and last known
address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that the towing
company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and clear of any
liens, excluding tax liens.
      (2)   If the above-referenced certified letter is not sent within the ten
days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of storage may be
charged. The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor vehicle
after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable or agreed
towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle. If a lienholder does not
exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this division
within 45 days of notification, and all lienholders agree in writing, the tow
company or storage facility may obtain a new title under state law free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under state
law, and the owner does not exercise the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification required under state
law, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under state law
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(2)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until
he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which
the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.43 PARKING AFTER SNOWFALL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street in the
city at any time within 24 hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has
occurred.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to modify the
provisions of §
72.13 prohibiting parking at other times and places.
(Ord. 103, passed 2-13-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.13 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 per each offense.
Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. In no event
shall the minimum penalty for violation of §
72.13 be less than that provided by KRS or as provided by § 168 of the state
constitution.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.43 shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100 for each offense.
Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (Ord. 92, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 103, passed 2-13-1978; Ord.
104, passed 7-10-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   SIGNS
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Windy Hills Green opening/closing time
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 WINDY HILLS GREEN OPENING/CLOSING TIME.
   (A)   The Windy Hills Green (located at the southwest corner of Brownsboro
Road/U.S. 42 and Rudy Lane in the city) is closed from sundown to sunrise of
each day, except for functions sponsored by the city.
   (B)   No person shall be on the Green during the hours it is closed.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-9-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
90.01 shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100 for each offense.
Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-9-2012)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
   
91.07   Encroachment permits
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements
   
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Chapter 94
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Property maintenance, see
Chapter 95
   Traffic rules, see
Chapter 71
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 91.07 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   The form for obtaining issuance of encroachment permits for
performance of any work within the rights-of-way of the city is set forth by
the forms created by the city and to be utilized by the applicants requesting
encroachment.
   (B)   The form entitled Vendor Application for Right-of-Way Encroachment,
attached to Ordinance 6 S2018/2019 and incorporated by reference as if fully
set forth herein, shall be used by all persons, firms or corporations intending
to perform any and all work in the rights-of-way with the exception of
driveways.
   (C)   The form entitled Resident Application for Right-of-Way Encroachment
for Driveways, attached to Ordinance 6 S2018/2019 and incorporated by reference
as if fully set forth herein, shall be used by all persons, firms or
corporations solely for the purpose of constructing or renovating driveways
with the right-of-way.
   (D)   No person, firm or corporation shall proceed with any work within said
rights-of-way without first completing and filing the proper form with the City
Clerk and thereafter obtaining an encroachment permit upon compliance with the
terms of this section and the encroachment form's specifications.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of $50 per
occurrence and each day shall constitute a separate violation, the total of
which is subject to collection by any remedy at law including but not limited
to liens against the violator's property to secure the payment thereof and suit
of law in the court of competent jurisdiction in Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   (F)   Applicants may apply for a hearing before the Council for temporary or
special variances in case of need or hardship. Need or hardship permission to
vary will be granted at the sole discretion of the Council.
(Ord. 6 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting
for each project.
   (B)   A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(b))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(e))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor-driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(h))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(j))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of seven inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interfere
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, cause
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitute an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for those purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 65.8840(4), it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the
city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop
thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
(KRS 65.8840(3))
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
      (2)   The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner
of property, as it appears on the current tax assessment roll.
      (3)   Upon the failure of the owner of the property to comply, the
authorized city official is authorized to send employees upon the property to
remedy the situation.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the
reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance
situation. The affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to KRS 65.8840, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, except as provided in KRS 65.8840
(10), and may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
(KRS 65.8840(8))
      (2)   In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized by law,
the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this
section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all
interest, civil penalties, and other charges, and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(KRS 65.8840(10))
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: SIGNS
Section
   
93.01   County Planning Commission regulations
   
93.02   For sale/for rent signs
   
93.03   Construction sign
   
93.04   Presumption of ownership
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to display, or allow to be displayed, or allowed to
remain on display, any sign, as defined in the regulations of the Louisville
and Jefferson County Planning Commission, on a public right-of-way at any
location within the city except those signs specifically exempted under those
regulations (such as governmental signs).
(Ord. 97-04, passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 FOR SALE/FOR RENT SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to display, or allow to be displayed, or allowed to
remain on display, any “for rent” or “for sale” sign on any lot as defined in
the zoning district regulations of the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning
Commission other than the lot being offered for sale or lease, or in any public
right-of-way. It shall be unlawful for any “for sale” or “for rent” sign to be
displayed, or allowed to be displayed, or to remain on any lot more than 24
hours after the sale of such lot as evidenced by the recording of a deed, or
after a lease or rental of said lot as evidenced by the signing of a lease on
the subject lot by both lessor and lessee, or as evidenced by the taking of
possession by the lessee or tenant.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSTRUCTION SIGN.
   No construction sign shall remain on any lot after the construction thereon
is substantially completed.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 7-14-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 PRESUMPTION OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be presumed that any sign placed in violation of this chapter was
so placed by the owner of the lot being offered for sale or lease as well as
the real estate agent whose name appears on the sign and the real estate
company whose name appears on the sign, any one or all of which may be cited
separately, and each shall be liable separately for the fines and penalties
contained herein. It shall further be presumed that any other sign placed on
the public right-of-way was so placed by the person, firm, or corporation whose
product or services are promoted by such sign.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor no more than $100. Each day a
violation continues shall be a separate offense and a separate penalty may be
imposed therefor.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A) above, any person,
firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to the civil penalties and procedures as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 7-14-1997)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
95.01   Application
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Landscaping
   
95.04   Tree planting, maintenance, trimming, and topping
   
95.05   Removal of trees and shrubs
   
95.06   Removal of storm-damaged trees
   
95.07   Stumps, weeds, vines, and curbs
   
95.08   Height limit in right-of-way
   
95.09   Public nuisance trees and shrubs
   
95.10   Enforcement
   
95.11   Liability
   
95.12   Notification and appeal
   
95.13   Right to lien
   
95.14   Trees acceptable for planting
   
95.15   Trees unacceptable for planting
   
95.16   Invasive trees designated for control
Nuisances
   
95.30   Grass and weed height restrictions
   
95.31   Accumulation of rubbish
   
95.32   Property to remain fit and safe
   
95.33   Enforcement
   
95.34   Lien on property for failure to comply
Vacant Property
   
95.40   Vacant property registration
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Chapter 94
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 91
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 95.01 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter provides full power and authority over all trees and shrubs
located within street rights-of-way, parks, and public places of the city; and
to trees and shrubs located on private property adjacent to street rights-of-
way that constitute a hazard or threat as described herein.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORIST. An individual engaged in the profession of arboriculture who,
through experience, education, and related training, possesses the competence
to provide for or supervise the management of trees and other woody plants.
   CITY. The City of Windy Hills, Kentucky.
   CITY ARBORIST. A certified licensed arborist retained by the city for the
purpose of advising and assisting the Tree Board, Mayor, and City Council.
   OWNER. A person who is the owner of record of a dwelling in the city.
   PARK TREE. A tree located within the city’s parks, open areas, landscaped
areas, open lawn areas, and recreational areas.
   PRUNE. To trim a tree, shrub, or bush by cutting away dead or overgrown
branches or stems for the health of the plant.
   PUBLIC SHRUBS OR BUSHES. Any low vegetation located within the public right-
of-way, within the city’s parks, open areas, landscaped areas, open lawn areas,
and recreational areas.
   PUBLIC TREE. A street tree or a park tree.
   REMOVE or REMOVAL. The actual removal of a tree by digging up, cutting down,
or the effective removal through damage.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The total width of a street and its easements. For an
individual owner, the space between his, her, or their property line and the
street pavement.
   STREET TREE. A tree located within the public street right-of-way.
   SWALE. A depression or shallow ditch in a right-of-way for drainage of
water.
   TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree’s crown
to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   TREE. A self-supporting, woody plant of a species that normally, in the
area, grows at maturity to an overall height of a minimum of 15 feet.
   TRIM. To cut a tree, shrub, or bush to alter its shape or volume.
   UTILITIES. Public utility, commercial, and private lines and pipelines,
including, but not limited to: overhead electric wires; television and
communication cables; guy wires; underground water; gas; sewer drainage;
communication and power lines; and pipelines.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.03 LANDSCAPING.
   In new developments within the city, the Tree Board and the City Council
shall review landscaping plans and may require street trees to be planted in
any of the streets, parking lots, parks, and other public places abutting lands
henceforth developed and/or subdivided. Landscaping of new developments shall
follow the Metro Louisville Land Development Code.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.04 TREE PLANTING, MAINTENANCE, TRIMMING, AND TOPPING.
   (A)   Public tree care. The city shall have the right to plant, trim, prune,
maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the right-of-way of all
streets, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary for
public safety or preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
   (B)   Owner planting of street trees. The planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners is encouraged, providing that the selection and
distance between trees is in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   City tree planting program. The city will contribute $100 per (canopy)
tree towards the planting of up to two new trees per property, provided that
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Trees must reach at least 30 feet height at maturity.
      (2)   The trees must be purchased from and planted by designated
nurseries with which the city has agreements.
      (3)   The homeowner will pay the nursery for the tree at a 20% discount
and the cost of its planting by the nursery.
      (4)   Upon the planting, the nursery will submit the paid invoice to the
city.
      (5)   The city will send the homeowner a $100 rebate per tree.
   (D)   Trimming and pruning. Any tree or shrub or other plant on a right-of-
way or private property shall be trimmed or pruned when it interferes with
walking or traffic, or the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight, or with visibility of any traffic-control device or sign. The
person owning or occupying the property on or adjacent to which the tree,
shrub, or other plant is located shall be responsible for trimming or pruning
it to maintain the clearances for pedestrians and vehicles in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (E)   Topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal procedure to top any street
or park tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain
trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices
are impractical may be exempted from this subchapter at the determination of
the Tree Board.
   (F)   Distances and clearances for planting of new trees.
      (1)   Distance from street corners and fireplugs. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner, measured from the point of
nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be planted
closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
      (2)   Distance from utilities. No street trees other than those species
listed as small trees in the city’s street tree listing of trees acceptable for
planting may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line, or other utility.
      (3)   Distance from sidewalk, curb, or edge of pavement. The distance
that trees may be planted from sidewalks, curbs, or edge of uncurbed street
pavement depends on the three size classes of trees listed in the city’s street
tree listing of trees acceptable for planting. Trees shall not be planted
closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following distances:
         (a)   Small trees: two feet;
         (b)   Medium trees: three feet; and
         (c)   Large trees: four feet.
      (4)   Distance between trees. The distance between trees depends on the
three size classes listed in the city’s street tree listing of trees acceptable
for planting. Trees shall not be planted closer to each other than the
following distances:
         (a)   Small trees: 30 feet;
         (b)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
         (c)   Large trees: 50 feet except in special plantings designed or
approved by a landscape architect.
      (5)   Clearances. Trees shall be trimmed to maintain these clearances:
         (a)   Above the surface of a sidewalk: eight feet;
         (b)   Above the surface of a street: 12 feet; and
         (c)   Between any part of tree and adjacent sidewalk or pavement: at
least one foot.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012; Ord. 7 S14-15, passed 6-8-2015; Ord. 3 S16-17,
passed 6-13-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Trees acceptable for planting, see §
95.14
§ 95.05 REMOVAL OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Responsibility of owners. Owners are responsible for removing from the
right-of-way adjacent to their property any living, dying, or dead tree or limb
or shrub if it obstructs street lights, traffic signs, or the free and safe
passage of pedestrians and vehicles, or poses a hazard to life or property, or
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or if such tree or shrub harbors an infestation or fungus
or disease.
   (B)   Notice to remove tree or shrub. Upon the discovery in a right-of-way
of any problematic tree or shrub, such as described in division (A) above, the
Tree Board shall serve written notice upon the owner of the property adjacent
to the right-of-way upon which such diseased or infested tree is situated,
requiring the owner to prune, remove, or otherwise remedy such condition at his
or her own expense within 30 business days.
   (C)   Replacement of removed street tree. At the owner’s request, the city
will replace a street tree after the tree and stump have been removed by the
owner, and will pay for both the tree and a qualified arborist to transplant it
up to a limit of $300. The owner shall pay any cost over $300. The owner must
choose a tree that is on the city’s street tree listing of trees acceptable for
planting, and that is approved by the City Arborist for the location.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Trees acceptable for planting, see §
95.14
§ 95.06 REMOVAL OF STORM-DAMAGED TREES.
   The city will perform and pay for the partial removal of any tree, whether
in a right-of-way or not, that due to a storm or other natural condition has
been damaged so as to block a public roadway or sidewalk. The obligation of the
city shall extend only to the clearing of the public roadway or sidewalk, and
any further restoration or complete removal of the tree and its cost shall be
borne by the homeowner.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.07 STUMPS, WEEDS, VINES, AND CURBS.
   (A)   Stump removal. Stumps of street and park trees shall be removed so
that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
   (B)   Removal of weeds from sidewalks and drainage swales. It shall be
unlawful for the owner or his or her agent of property abutting any public ways
to permit noxious weeds or vegetation to grow or remain in the area between his
or her property line and the paved portion of the street and it shall be the
duty of such abutting owner to maintain the grass in the unpaved portion of the
public way adjacent to his or her property and to keep sidewalks and drainage
swales adjacent to his or her property free from obstruction.
   (C)   Removal of tree vines. Vines are detrimental to the health of trees
and can obscure their condition. The owner shall remove any vines growing on
the trunk(s) of their street tree(s) in order to allow a visual assessment of
the condition of the tree(s).
   (D)   Curbs and curb stones. The owner of property may take reasonable steps
to protect the right-of- way adjacent to his or her property from damage or
harm, including the maintenance of curbs, curb stones, or similar devices no
closer than one-inch to the paved portion of the roadway in areas subject to
continued abuse.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 HEIGHT LIMIT IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No shrub, tree, or other plant shall be permitted that is over three feet in
height above the established elevation of the curb level within the right-of-
way of any street (including sidewalk area), provided, however, the trunk of
trees (exclusive of branches) shall be permitted within such area where
otherwise in compliance with the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.09 PUBLIC NUISANCE TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   A living, dying, or dead tree or limb or shrub on a right-of-way, or
adjacent to a right-of-way but on private property, may be declared a public
nuisance by the city if it obstructs street lights, traffic signs, or the free
and safe passage of pedestrians and vehicles, or poses a hazard to life or
property. A representative of the Tree Board may meet with the property owner
to discuss such a tree, and the city may give notice to the property owner to
remedy such nuisance at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   A living, dying, or dead tree or limb or shrub on a right-of-way, or
anywhere on private property, that harbors an infestation or fungus or disease
which the City Arborist determines is a contagious communicable threat to other
trees within the city, may be declared a public nuisance by the city. Owners
are encouraged to report such nuisances to the city. A representative of the
Tree Board may meet with the property owner to discuss such a nuisance. The
city may give notice to the property owner that it intends to remediate such
nuisance for the owner at city expense, and proceed to do so. The owner shall
cooperate with the city’s remediation. Remediation may include various measures
as determined by the City Arborist, such as spraying, injecting, trimming, or
removing.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   If a property owner does not comply with a notice from the city about a
provision of this subchapter, the Mayor, at recommendation of the Tree Board,
and the direction of City Council, may hire and send specialists or contractors
upon a property, accompanied by the city’s Code Enforcement Officer, to carry
out the requirements of the notice. If the owner is responsible for the cost
according to this subchapter, the city may then bill the property owner for the
cost, and if not paid, file a lien to recover the cost.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.11 LIABILITY.
   An owner is liable to the public for failure to trim or remove trees and
shrubs within his or her street right-of-way to the requirements contained
herein.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.12 NOTIFICATION AND APPEAL.
   No person shall be fined for any violation of this subchapter without first
having been notified in writing by the city of the violation, and having been
given 30 business days to correct the violation or to appeal the fine.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.13 RIGHT TO LIEN.
   (A)   Upon the failure of the owner of the property to comply with any
notice specified herein, the city may file a lien against the property for any
unpaid fines, for the actual cost of remedying the situation, and for any
attorney costs and filing fees.
   (B)   The claim shall be in the form of an affidavit signed by the Mayor and
shall be recorded in the County Court Clerk’s office and which lien shall bear
interest at the rate of 6% per annum thereafter until paid.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.14 TREES ACCEPTABLE FOR PLANTING.
   (A)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for
the city.
   (B)   No species other than those acceptable according to this list may be
planted as street trees without written permission of the Tree Board.
Trees Acceptable for Planting (Bold = Native to Kentucky)
Trees Acceptable for Planting (Bold = Native to Kentucky)
LARGE TREES (75 feet high and up)
Basswood
Beech, American
Beech, European
Birch, Sweet (aka Birch, Black; oka Birch, Cherry)
Birch, Yellow
Buckeye, Ohio
Buckeye, Yellow
Catalpa
Cherry, Black
Coffee Tree, Kentucky (seedless cultivars or males only, the Kentucky State
Heritage Tree)
Cucumber-Tree (Magnolia Acuminata)
Cypress, Bald
Cypress, Pond
Elm, American (Dutch Elm Disease Resistant cultivars only)
Elm, Chinese
Fir, White
Gingko (males only should be planted)
Gum, Black (aka Tupelo, Black)
Hickory, Bitternut
Hickory, Mockernut
Hickory, Shagbark
Hickory, Shellbark
Holly, American
Locust, Black
Maple, Norway (High Pollen Potential)
Maple, Sugar (Use discretion in planting due to area over-planting)
Oak, Black
Oak, Bur
Oak, Cherrybark
Oak, Chestnut
Oak, Chinkapin
Oak, English
Oak, Northern Red
Oak, Pin (Pin Oak) (not recommended because locally over-planted)
Oak, Post
Oak, Scarlet
Oak, Shingle
Oak, Shumard
Oak, Southern Red
Oak, Swamp White
Oak, Water
Oak, White
Oak, Willow
Persimmon
Pine, Eastern White
Pine, Shortleaf
Planetree, London
Poplar, Yellow (aka Tulip Poplar, the Kentucky State Tree)
Sassafras
Spruce, Blue
Spruce, Oriental
Spruce, Serbian
Sweetgum (Rotundiloba or Platanus occidentalis - seedless cultivars or males
only)
Sycamore (High Pollen Potential)
Tupelo, Black (aka Gum, Black; previous national “Tree of the Year”)
Walnut, Black
Zelkova
MEDIUM TREES (35 to 75 feet high)
Alder, European Black (aka Alder, Black)
Birch, River (highly susceptible to ice and snow damage and recommended only
for moist areas; should be carefully considered)
Cedar, Eastern Red
Cherry, Higan
Cherry, Japanese Flowering
Cherry, Sargent
Chestnut Horse
Corktree, Amur
Elm, Lacebark
Elm, Slippery
Elm, Winged
Falsecypress, Honiki
Filbert Turkish
Golden Rain Tree (aka Golden Raintree)
Holly, European
Holly, Fosters
Honeylocust; Thornless
Hophornbeam
Hornbeam, American
Hornbeam, European
Hornbeam, Japanese
Katsura Tree
Linden, Littleleaf
Linden, Silver
Maple, Amur
Maple, Hedge
Maple, Red (Use discretion in planting due to area over-planting)
Mulberry, Red (High Pollen Potential)
Parrotia, Persian
Pear, Cleveland Select Pear
Redwood, Dawn
Sassafras
Silverbell, Carolina
Sourwood
Yellowwood
Willow, Black
SMALL TREES (15 to 35 feet high)
Arborvitae, American
Arborvitae, Oriental
Buckeye
Cherry, Yoshino
Crabapple (newer, resistant cultivars only)
Crapemyrtle
Dogwood, American
Dogwood, Kousa
Filbert, American
Filbert, European
Fringetree, Chinese
Fringetree, White
Hally Jolivette
Hawthorn (newer, resistant cultivars only)
Lilac, Japanese Tree Lilac
Magnolia, Japanese
Magnolia, Star
Magnolia, Sweetbay
Maple, Hedge
Maple, Japanese
Maple, Paperbark
Maple, Tatarian
Maple, Trident
Pawpaw
Possumhaw
Redbud
Red Cherry
Serviceberry
Viburnum
Whitecedar, Atlantic (aka White-Cedar, Atlantic)
Witchhazel
 
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.15 TREES UNACCEPTABLE FOR PLANTING.
Trees Not Acceptable for Planting (Bold = Native to Kentucky)
Trees Not Acceptable for Planting (Bold = Native to Kentucky)
LARGE TREES
Ailanthus (Tree of Heaven)
Coffee Tree, Kentucky (Female)
Elm, Siberian
Gingko (female)
Maple, Silver (aka Maple, Water)
Paulonia, Royal
MEDIUM TREES
Boxelder
Honeylocust, Wild
Mimosa
Olive, Autumn
Olive, Russian
Olive, Thorny
Pears (Flowering) (except Cleveland Select Pear)
Pine, Virginia
Privet, Chinese European
SMALL TREES
Burning Bush, Winged
Cherry Plum
Honeysuckle, Amur (invasive)
 
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 95.16 INVASIVE TREES DESIGNATED FOR CONTROL.
Invasive Trees and Woody Plants Designated for Control and/or Removal 
(Bold = Native to Kentucky)
Ailanthus (Tree of Heaven)
Burning Bush, Winged
Honeysuckle, Bush
Mimosa
Non-native Rose
Olive, Autumn
Olive, Russian
Olive, Thorny
Paulownia, Royal
Privet, Chinese
Privet, European
 
(Ord. 12-04, passed 10-8-2012)
NUISANCES
§ 95.30 GRASS AND WEED HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any property within the
city to permit weeds or grass to grow greater than seven inches in height on
the property, including the roadway right-of-way lying between his, her, or its
property and the pavement.
(Ord. 00-01, passed 6-12-2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.31 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of
rubbish or the excessive growth of weeds or grass.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 6-12-2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.32 PROPERTY TO REMAIN FIT AND SAFE.
   It shall be unlawful in the city for the owner of a property to permit any
structure upon the property to become unfit and unsafe for human habitation,
occupancy, or use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure which are
dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the
city.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 6-12-2000) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.33 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city hereby establishes the standards and procedures for the enforcement
of §§
95.30 through
95.34 under KRS 65.8840 as follows.
   (A)   Whenever such a situation is discovered, the Mayor, City Clerk, or
City Attorney, at the direction of either the Mayor or the City Clerk, shall
give five days’ written notice to the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management the property to remedy such situation.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the
owner of the said property, as it appears on the current tax assessment roll.
      (2)   Upon the failure of the owner of the property to comply, the Mayor
or City Clerk is authorized to send employees or persons hired by the city upon
said property to remedy the situation.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 95.34 LIEN ON PROPERTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the
reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation.
      (2)   The affidavit of the Mayor or the City Clerk shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this subchapter and KRS 65.8840, and shall be recorded in the
office of the County Clerk.
      (3)   The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid at the rate of 1.5% per
month, compounded monthly, and may be enforced by judicial proceedings.
   (B)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above or any
other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has
been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the
amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other charges
and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 6-12-2000)
VACANT PROPERTY
§ 95.40 VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration form. The Vacant Property Registration form, attached to
Ordinance 9 S2018/2019 incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein,
shall be submitted, along with an annual fee of $150 payable to the City of
Windy Hills on or before January 1 at 4350 Brownsboro Road, Louisville,
Kentucky 40207. Fees are not refundable or pro-rated.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the intent of this section to identify vacant
properties within the city and to establish a registry of such properties as a
means to protect the value of our neighborhoods and to minimize hazards to
persons or other properties because of this vacancy.
   (C)   Definition of vacancy. The city considers any residential property
that is continuously unoccupied or inhabited for 12 consecutive months to be a
vacant property. Periods of short-term occupancy of less than 12 months,
temporary rentals or leases, do not qualify as occupancy. Residences listed for
sale or under construction for a period of longer than 12 months are also
considered vacant.
   (D)   Evidence of vacancy. A condition on its own or in combination with
others that would lead a reasonable person to believe the property is vacant,
including admission by current owners, or agents, and/or such conditions as
overgrown vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail, trash, disconnected
utilities, or the absence of interior furnishings. This also includes
notifications by neighbors, delivery persons. governmental authorities, or
local utilities.
   (E)   Registration. Property owners of vacant property are required to
register their properties. Any property meeting the above definition of vacancy
must be registered upon notice, or within 30 days after 12 continuous months of
vacancy. Upon notice, the city shall prepare, maintain, and periodically update
a registry of vacant properties. Such properties shall be registered annually,
as long as they remain vacant, with the submission of a current registration
form and payment of the current annual fee. Failure to pay the current annual
property fee for each property within ten days of the date of notice, or
failure to register a new property meeting vacant property guidelines, will be
subject to a fine of $500. lf such fine is issued and not paid within ten
business days a lien will be filed against the property.
   (F)   Maintenance. For as long as the property continues to be vacant
responsible parties must:
      (1)   Keep property free of garbage, litter, junk, debris, discarded
building materials or personal items, including unregistered, unlicensed
vehicles, campers, boats, or other non-licensed recreational vehicles,
construction or building equipment.
      (2)   Property shall be free of weeds, dead vegetation and trees.
Trimming and mowing grass and bushes is required as seasonally needed. Grass
may not be higher than seven inches. Bushes shall not interfere with proper
operation of gutters, downspouts or utility services. Gutters shall be
maintained securely attached and free of debris and growth. Fences shall be
properly maintained.
      (3)   Windows, doors, skylights, screens, shutters and other decorative
features shall be kept in sound condition, free of rot, broken glass, and other
deterioration which hinders operation. Other than those that are fixed, windows
and doors shall be able to be opened and may not be boarded up. Screens must be
properly attached and free of holes or tears that would hinder intended usage.
      (4)   Roofs and chimneys shall be maintained structurally safe, and in
good repair, free of leaking.
      (5)   Secured property, outbuildings, and garages from intrusion by
unauthorized persons, animals or vermin is required. Swimming pools must be
properly covered and fenced.
      (6)   Maintenance and repairs must be performed as needed, to insure
vacant property is not in violation of any city, Metro Louisville Property
Maintenance, land development, or building codes, or any state regulation. Such
maintenance shall apply to the interior and exterior of the property if such
condition becomes apparent and represents a hazard to the property or to the
neighborhood.
   (G)   Inspections. Inspections of the exterior of the vacant property must
be performed before registration is considered valid. Inspections will be
conducted annually. All owners and agents agree to allow the city Code
Enforcement Officer to inspect the exterior of the property. Inspections will
be performed with prior notice to the owner or agent. Violations found during
the inspection will be given ten business days from written notice to abate
such violations.
   (H)   Enforcement. Failure to annually register a vacant property upon
written notice, or to voluntarily register a new property after 12 consecutive
months of vacancy will be subject to a $500 fine. Any owner/agent who violates
any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation and shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $250. Each day of violation constitutes a
separate violation of this chapter punishable by a fine of up to $250. Any
owner or agent who has received notice of violation of the provisions herein,
and who has failed to abate the violation may be charged with the violation,
the total of which is subject to collection by the payment thereof and suit of
law in the court of competent jurisdiction in Jefferson County, Kentucky. All
balances due are subject to lien filings to secure same in said county.
(Ord. 9 S2018/2019, passed 6-10-2019)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A property owner that is determined by the Tree Board as being in
violation of §§
95.01 through
95.15 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense. The
amount of the fine shall be recommended by the Tree Board and approved by the
City Council.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating §
95.30 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each offense.
Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, §
95.30 may be enforced by civil penalty as provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   In addition to the foregoing, §§
95.30 through
95.34 may be enforced by civil penalty as provided in §
10.99, which civil penalty shall not be less than $50 a day, with each day a
violation exists or continues deemed a separate and distinct offense, and a
separate civil penalty may be imposed for each such day.
(Ord. 00-01, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 00-02, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 12-04, passed
10-8-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PRIVATE PROPERTY RENTALS
      
111.   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: PRIVATE PROPERTY RENTALS
Section
   
110.01   Registration required
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Annual registration; fee
   
110.04   Exterior inspection
   
110.05   Application of land development ordinances
   
110.06   Compliance with property standard
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Registration with the city of all rental property by persons owning,
managing, leasing, or renting property and not residing at said property is
hereby required.
   (B)   Registration of the rental property will be required for persons
renting one or more rental units.
(Ord. 1 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provision of this chapter shall apply to any residential dwelling,
including those units in a condominium located in the city that is, at any
time, rented or leased to members of the public, including short-term rentals.
   (B)   By definition, a SHORT-TERM RENTAL is a property that is rented for
less than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 1 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 110.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Annual registration will be required for each rental unit.
   (B)   All property owners renting units in the city must annually register
their properties prior to January 1 each year.
   (C)   The owner will pay a $150 annual registration fee to the city. Owners
of more than one rental unit must register them separately and pay an
additional $75 per rental unit.
(Ord. 1 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 EXTERIOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspection of the exterior of the rental unit must be performed before
a rental registration is considered valid.
   (B)   By nature of this chapter, all owners and managers are agreeing to
allow the Code Enforcement Officer from the city to inspect the exterior of the
rental property. Inspections will be performed with prior notice to the owner
or manager of the rental unit with sufficient time to notify the lessee.
   (C)   Violations found during the inspection of the rental unit will be
given ten business days to be corrected.
(Ord. 1 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION OF LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Owners, managers, rental agents, and occupants are required to comply
with Metro Louisville Land Development ordinances as they apply to family
occupancy.
   (B)   Additionally, owners, managers, and rental agents agree to comply with
all Metro Louisville and city ordinances with regard to property conditions of
both interior and exterior of the rental unit.
   (C)   Any such condition which constitutes a public nuisance, health hazard,
or source of filth or infestation allowed to develop thereupon through
accumulation of rubbish or excessive growth of weeds, grass, or shrubs is
considered in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 COMPLIANCE WITH PROPERTY STANDARD.
   A rental housing standard is set forth in this chapter as meeting the city
property ordinance standards.
(Ord. 1 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner who fails to register his or her rental property will be
subject to a $500 fine. If not paid within ten business days of the receipt of
non-payment of the annual registration letter, a lien will be filed against
said property.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner, his or her or their agent, or occupant, who has
received notice of a violation of the provisions herein and who has failed to
abate the violation may be charged with a violation of this chapter in a
criminal complaint in Jefferson District Court.
      (2)   Any owner, his or her or their agent, or occupant, who violates any
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation which shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $250.
      (3)   Each day of violation constitutes a separate violation of this
chapter punishable by a fine of up to $250.
(Ord. 1 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
CHAPTER 111: COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Declaration of findings
   
111.002   Title
   
111.003   Applicability
   
111.004   Preservation of authority
   
111.005   Public inspection of records
   
111.006   Indemnification
   
111.007   Compliance with laws
   
111.008   Enforcement; attorneys’ fees
   
111.009   Relationship of the parties
   
111.010   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
111.025   Administration
   
111.026   Non-enforcement by city
   
111.027   Publication of notices
   
111.028   Transitional authority, responsibilities, and interpretation
   
111.029   Franchisees providing communications service to customers
   
111.030   Private communications facilities
   
111.031   Liabilities and penalties
   
111.032   Remedies not exclusive
   
111.033   Review, termination, and cancellation
   
111.034   Foreclosure; receivership
   
111.035   Reports
   
111.036   Books and records of the franchisee
   
111.037   Time of essence
   
111.038   Equal employment opportunity
   
111.039   Violations
Franchise Requirements and Characteristics
   
111.050   Unlawful to operate without a franchise
   
111.051   Franchises non-exclusive
   
111.052   Nature of rights granted by any franchise
   
111.053   Application and fee required
   
111.054   Standards and procedures for approval or renewal of franchise
   
111.055   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
111.056   Use of rights-of-way; police powers; franchisee’s use subordinate
   
111.057   Emergencies
   
111.058   Term
   
111.059   Franchise fees
   
111.060   Timing of payment of franchise fees
   
111.061   Interest on late payments and under payments
   
111.062   Fee statement
   
111.063   No accord and satisfaction
   
111.064   Description of communications service
   
111.065   Franchise fee not a tax; payment of taxes
   
111.066   Assignment of franchise
   
111.067   Forfeiture of franchise and privilege
   
111.068   Security for payment of fees
   
111.069   Special rules for governmental entities
Rights-of-Way Management; Facilities Requirements
   
111.080   Encroachment permit
   
111.081   Additional facilities; requirements; planned infrastructure
   
111.082   Removal of facilities
   
111.083   Relocation of facilities; third-party facilities
   
111.084   Franchisee responsible for costs
   
111.085   Insurance and bonds
   
111.086   Permits
   
111.087   Notification
   
111.088   Standards
   
111.089   Traffic
   
111.090   Delay of improvements
   
111.091   Special exceptions
   
111.092   Inspections
   
111.093   Repair of sunken pavement over excavation
   
111.094   Removal
   
111.095   Materials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS.
   The city hereby declares, as a legislative finding, that the rights-of-way
controlled by the city:
   (A)   Are a unique and physically limited resource;
   (B)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the city;
   (C)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
   (D)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of providers of
communications service, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general
economic well-being of the city and its citizens; and
   (E)   Should be subject to specific additional regulations imposed in a
competitively neutral and non-discretionary manner as established by this
ordinance to ensure coordination of providers of communications service,
maximize available space, and facilitate entry of a maximum number of providers
of communications service and other services in the public interest.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.002 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to and cited as the “Communications Service
Franchise Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to the full extent of the
terms herein and shall be limited in scope or application only to the extent as
may be required by applicable federal or state law, including such changes in
applicable law as may be hereinafter enacted.
   (B)   No provisions of this chapter shall be disregarded pursuant to this
section, except on express application to and determination by the city to such
effect based on the specific factual circumstances demonstrated.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed incorporated in each
franchise granted.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.004 PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Any rights granted pursuant to this chapter and pursuant to any franchise
authorized hereunder are subject to the authority of the city to adopt and
enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Franchisees and other holders of franchises shall be subject to and comply with
all applicable laws enacted by the city pursuant to its home rule or statutory
powers and the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government (“Louisville
Metro”) Public Works and Assets Utility Policy, as may be amended from time to
time, to the extent not in conflict with state or federal law. Nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to waive a right, if any, that any party may have to
seek judicial or regulatory review as to the provisions herein or as to actions
of the parties under applicable federal, state, or local law currently in
effect or as may hereinafter be amended.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.005 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   Certain information required to be filed with the city pursuant to this
chapter is subject to inspection and copying by the public pursuant to the
provisions of the state’s Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.006 INDEMNIFICATION.
   As a condition of use of the rights-of-way, each franchisee at its sole cost
and expense, shall indemnify, protect, defend (with counsel acceptable to the
city) and hold harmless the city, its elected officials, officers, employees,
and agents, from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages,
liabilities, fines, charges, penalties, administrative and judicial proceedings
and orders, judgments, remedial actions of any kind, and all costs and expenses
of any kind, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs of defense arising, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of
or in relation to the city’s award of the franchise to that franchisee, the
rights granted to the franchisee, or the activities performed, or failed to be
performed, by such franchisee under the franchise or use of the rights-of-way,
except to the extent such acts or use arise from or are caused by the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of the city, its elected officials, officers,
or employees. This indemnification shall survive the expiration or termination
of any franchise or use of the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.007 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   In performing activities and exercising rights and obligations under any
franchise, each franchisee and other holder of a franchise shall comply with
all applicable federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, regulations, and
policies, including, but not limited to, all laws, ordinances, regulations, and
policies relating to construction and use of rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.008 ENFORCEMENT; ATTORNEYS’ FEES.
   The city shall be entitled to enforce this chapter and any franchise granted
hereunder through all remedies lawfully available, and each franchisee shall
pay the city its costs of enforcement, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorneys’ fees, in the event that franchisee is determined
judicially to have violated the terms of this chapter or any franchise.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.009 RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES.
   Under no circumstances shall any franchise authorized by this chapter be
construed to create any relationship of agency, partnership, joint venture, or
employment between the city and the franchisee.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.010 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
singular number include the plural number, and words in the plural number
include the singular. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is
permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE. As to any person, each person, directly or indirectly,
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such person.
   ANTENNA. Any device that transmits or receives signals. Such signals
include, but are not limited to, radio and infrared waves for voice, data, or
video communications purposes.
   ATTACHER. Any person or his or her agents or contractors seeking to
permanently or temporarily fasten or affix any type of equipment, antenna,
line, or facility of any kind to a utility pole in the rights-of-way or its
adjacent ground space.
   ATTACHMENT APPLICATION. The application made by an attacher to a pole owner
for attachment of equipment, antenna, line, or facility of any kind to a
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS. The transmission via the facilities, in whole or in part, of
video, audio, data, writings, signs, signals, pictures, sounds, or other forms
of information or intelligence through wire, wireless, or other electronic
means, regardless of the federal or state statutory or regulatory scheme to
which such transmissions may be subject.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmission of communications via facilities,
to a customer, or to any other person, including a private communications
system owner’s provision of communications via a private communications system,
that is within or outside the territorial limits of the city. COMMUNICATIONS
SERVICE includes, but is not limited to, “telecommunications service”,
“enhanced service”, “information service”, “internet access service”,
“broadband service”, “cable service”, “video programming service”, “other
programming service”, and internet-based or “over the top” video service
offerings, as those terms are now, or may in the future be, defined under
federal law. The term also includes the use of all instrumentalities,
facilities, conduits, apparatus, and services or functionalities (among other
things, the receipt, forwarding, storage, generation, or delivery of
communications), incidental to or designed to directly or indirectly facilitate
or accept communications.
   CUSTOMER. A person located within the territorial limits of the city who
ultimately uses or is intended to ultimately use communications service
provided by a franchisee and is the ultimate last user of a communications
service.
   FACILITIES. Any portion of a system located in, along, over, upon, under, or
through the rights-of-way.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America
or any successor thereto.
   FRANCHISE. A franchise granted under this chapter, or any other franchise
granted by the city pursuant to §§ 163 and 164 of the Kentucky Constitution, or
by the Kentucky General Assembly prior to the adoption of §§ 163 and 164 of the
Kentucky Constitution, which permits a franchisee to install or operate any
facilities in the rights-of-way to provide communications service. Use of this
definition in this chapter is not intended to include any license or permit for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the city, as may
be required by any other ordinance or laws of the city or the state.
   FRANCHISE FEE. The fee imposed by the city on franchisee for use of the
rights-of-way pursuant to a franchise granted under this chapter.
   FRANCHISEE. The person to whom a franchise is granted, or its successors,
assigns, or transferees.
   LESSEE. A person who provides communications service within the city solely
by leasing facilities and who has no control over what, where or how any
facilities are erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed,
restored, or otherwise used.
   MAKE-READY COSTS. The costs incurred by an attacher associated with the
transfer of the facilities, antenna, lines, or equipment of a pre-existing
third-party user, undertaken by attacher to enable attachment to the utility
pole or similar structure.
   PERSON. Individual, partnership, association, corporation, joint venture,
legal entity, or organization of any kind.
   POLE OWNER. A Person having ownership of a pole or similar structure in the
rights-of-way to which utilities, including without limitation, electric and
communications facilities, are located or may be located whether such ownership
is in fee simple or by franchise.
   PRE-EXISTING THIRD-PARTY USER. The owner of any currently operating
facilities, antenna, lines, or equipment on a pole or its adjacent ground space
in the rights-of-way.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. A system used for delivering communications
by a person solely in connection with the internal communications needs of such
person’s business; provided, that such person does not use, or permit the use
of, such system to provide communications service to a customer or any other
person.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OWNER. A person that owns or leases a private
communications system.
   RESELLER SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides communications service
within the city solely by reselling communications service and who has no
control over what, where or how any facilities are erected, installed,
maintained, operated, repaired, removed, restored, or otherwise used.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface and space on, above, and below every street,
alley, road, highway, lane, or other property dedicated or commonly used now or
hereafter for utility purposes and facilities. RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include
public property owned or leased by the city and not intended for rights-of-way
use, including, but not limited to, parks, public works property, buildings or
overhead lighting.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   SYSTEM. Any and all equipment, structures, materials, or tangible components
used to provide communications service, including without limitation all plant
(whether inside or outside), cabinets, surface location markers, fiber strands,
electronic equipment, amplification equipment, optic equipment, transmission
and distribution structures, antennas, lines, pipes, mains, conduit, ducts,
regenerators, repeaters, vaults, pedestals, manholes, handholds, pull boxes,
splice closures, wires, cables, towers, wave guides, and anything else designed
and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying, or
distributing communications service.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.025 ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall be responsible for the continued administration of this
chapter and any franchises granted hereunder.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.026 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY CITY.
   A franchisee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or its applicable franchise by reason of any
failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.027 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all costs of publication that may be
required with respect to its franchise or any amendments or renewals thereto.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.028 TRANSITIONAL AUTHORITY, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Existing franchises.
      (1)   Franchises previously granted shall be deemed to continue through
their current expiration date, incorporating this chapter, and they shall be
automatically deemed to have complied with all application and qualification
requirements hereunder, unless, within 60 days of passage of this chapter, a
franchisee indicates in writing it does not accept this amended ordinance as
part of its franchise. Upon such notice of non-acceptance, said franchisee and
the city may renegotiate or terminate the franchisee’s franchise pursuant to
all local, state and federal law.
      (2)   Further amendments of this chapter and the Louisville Metro Public
Works and Assets Utility Policy shall be deemed accepted by a franchisee
unless, within 60 days of any further amendments, a franchisee, indicates in
writing it does not accept the amendments as part of its franchise. Upon such
notice of non-acceptance, said franchisee and the city may renegotiate or
terminate the franchisee’s franchise pursuant to all local, state, and federal
law.
   (B)   Transitional provisions to be narrowly interpreted. It is the intent
of the city to apply the provisions of this chapter to all owners or operators
of communications systems with facilities, including local exchange carriers,
that now occupy or may in the future occupy rights-of-way, except to the extent
federal or state law prevents the city from doing so.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.029 FRANCHISEES PROVIDING COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   All franchisees providing communications service to customers shall to the
greatest extent applicable:
   (A)   At all times comply, at a minimum, with the FCC requirements for
Emergency Alert System specially applicable to their communications services;
   (B)   Provide to every customer access to public, educational and government
access channels that are available on the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government’s website, not to exceed three, at no cost to the city. Additional
channels may be negotiated, with both party’s consent, in the franchise
agreement;
   (C)   Have a publicly listed telephone number;
   (D)   Employ an operator or maintain a telephone answering device 24 hours
per day, each day of the year to receive customer complaints;
   (E)   Upon the customer’s termination of the communications services, permit
customers to return any equipment that franchisee requires to be returned upon
such termination at franchisee’s expense and advise customers of this
requirement when customers inquire about returning equipment. These expenses do
not include the cost for use of the equipment before termination of the
communications services; and
   (F)   Shall indemnify the city, pursuant to §
111.006, against any alleged infringement of patent or copyright or any other
legal infringement in the transmission of materials through the system. Nothing
herein is intended as a limitation on the extent of any legal liability of the
franchisee.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.030 PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application for license. A person wishing to erect, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove, or restore a private communications system in
the rights-of-way must obtain a license therefor from the city. Such license
shall only authorize placement of the private communications system in a
specific portion of the rights-of-way for a limited period of time and for a
specific purpose in connection with the person’s business and shall not permit
the use of the private communications system to provide communications service
to any other person or to the public. Such person shall submit an application
to the city on such form as may be developed by the city, accompanied by such
application fee as may be determined by the city.
   (B)   Conditions of license. Any license shall be subject to such conditions
as the city may from time to time establish, shall be expressly subordinate to
the use of the rights-of-way by the city and franchisees, and shall otherwise
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Compensation. A private communications system owner shall pay a fee
established by the city from time to time to reflect the fair market value of
the rights-of-way used.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.031 LIABILITIES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except as expressly stated in this chapter, the express or implied
repeal or amendment by this chapter of any ordinance or part thereof shall not
affect any liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior
to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Those liabilities and penalties are continued, and penalties shall be
imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this chapter
had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.032 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights and remedies of the city and the franchisee as set forth in their
franchise, or in this chapter, shall be in addition to and not in limitation
of, any other rights and remedies provided by law or in equity.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.033 REVIEW, TERMINATION, AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   Review. To provide for technological changes in the state of the art
of communications services, to facilitate renewal procedures, and to achieve
continuing, advanced, modern systems for the city , the franchisee shall comply
with the following review provisions.
      (1)   The city may hold review sessions which shall be open to the public
and notice shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper of general
circulation at least one week before each session.
      (2)   Either the city or the franchisee may select additional topics for
discussion at any regular or special review session.
      (3)   Any topic proposed for discussion at any regular or special review
session by a resident of the city and supported by a petition bearing the
signature of 30 city residents shall be included in the list of topics for
discussion.
   (B)   Termination.
      (1)   The city may terminate any franchise in accordance herewith in the
event of the violation of any material provision hereof or of any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant hereto or of any applicable federal, state, or
local law, or the breach or other failure, refusal or neglect by the franchisee
to perform its obligations under the material terms and conditions of this
chapter or of any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise in accordance
herewith, except when such violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect is
caused by any of the following:
         (a)   Act of God;
         (b)   Riot, insurrection, civil disturbance, sabotage or vandalism,
tampering or interference, act of public enemy, accident, fire, flood, strike,
unavailability of materials or equipment, war or act or war, all of which are
beyond the control of the franchisee; or
         (c)   An emergency declared by the President of the United States of
America, the Governor of the commonwealth or the Mayor.
      (2)   In the event that the city determines that the franchisee has
violated any material provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant hereto, any applicable federal, state, or local law, or
any material term of an agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise, the city
shall make a written demand on the franchisee that it comply with the law or
said agreement or ordinance. If the violation, breach, failure, refusal, or
neglect is not remedied to the satisfaction of the city within 30 days
following such demand, the city shall determine whether or not, in its sole
discretion, any violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect by the
franchisee was excusable or inexcusable as provided in division (B)(1) above.
         (a)   If the city determines such violation, breach, failure, refusal,
or neglect by the Franchisee was excusable as provided in division (B)(1)
above, the city shall direct the franchisee to correct or remedy the same
within such additional time, in such manner and upon such terms and conditions
as are just and reasonable and as the city may direct.
         (b)   If the city determines such violation, breach, failure, refusal,
or neglect by the franchisee was inexcusable, then City Council, by ordinance,
may declare the franchisee’s franchise breached, terminated, and of no further
force and effect. City Council may provide a time period for the franchisee to
become compliant.
      (3)   If the city declares the said agreement breached pursuant to
division (B)(2)(b) above, the city may pursue any remedies available to it
pursuant to this chapter or to the said franchise or ordinance or any other
remedy, legal or equitable, available to the city.
   (C)   Termination.
      (1)   If any franchise is cancelled by reason of the default of the
franchisee, the city may exercise its option to purchase any portion of the
system then connected in any manner with the rights-of-way, public places, or
other property of the city, at a cost not to exceed its then book value less
any amount for any damages incurred by the city in connection with such
cancellation. Damages incurred by the city shall include, but shall not be
limited to, any payment made by the city authorizing or directing the continued
operation of the system.
      (2)   In the event that the franchise is terminated, the franchisee shall
follow the procedure in §
111.094.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.034 FORECLOSURE; RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a
substantial part of the system, or upon the termination of any lease covering
all or a substantial part of the system, the franchise shall notify the city of
such foreclosure.
      (2)   The franchisee’s notification shall be treated as a notification
that a change in control of the franchisee has taken place, and the provisions
of this chapter governing the consent of the city to such change in control of
the franchisee shall apply.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to cancel the franchise 120 days after
the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct the
business of the franchisee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days,
or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election of appointment, the
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all of the provisions of
this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder,
and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction over same, whereby
such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every
provision of this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise
hereunder.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.035 REPORTS.
   (A)   Upon the city’s request, the franchisee shall submit a written report
to the city, including, but not limited to, the following information:
      (1)   A summary of the previous year’s or, in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year’s activities in development of the system,
including, but not limited to, communications service begun or discontinued,
total number of customers, and customers added or discontinued during the
reporting year;
      (2)   If the city exercises its constitutional right to collect franchise
fees, a statement of revenues; and
      (3)   A list of officers and members of the board of directors of the
franchisee, and its parent, subsidiary, or affiliate corporations, if any;
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the franchisee to refuse, fail, or
neglect to file the reports required under this chapter.
      (2)   The refusal, failure, or neglect of the franchisee to file any of
the reports required under this chapter or as the city may direct, shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and shall subject the franchisee to the
provisions of §
111.033, shall be deemed a material breach of any agreement or ordinance
awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, and shall subject the franchisee
to all penalties and remedies prescribed therein and to all other remedies,
legal or equitable, which are available to the city.
   (C)   Any material misrepresentation made knowingly by the franchisee in any
report required under this chapter shall subject the franchisee to the
provisions of §
111.033 and shall subject the franchisee to all penalties and remedies
prescribed therein and to all other remedies, legal or equitable, which are
available to the city.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.036 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of account and
records of its business and operations in connection with any franchise granted
under this chapter.
   (B)   Upon request, the city shall have access to all books of account and
records of the franchisee for the purpose of auditing franchise fee or tax
payments and of ascertaining the correctness of any and all reports and may
examine its officers and employees in respect thereto.
   (C)   Any false entry in the books of account or record submitted to the
city, or false statements in reports to the city, as to material fact,
knowingly made by the franchisee, shall constitute a breach of a material
provision of this chapter and any franchise agreement or ordinance hereunder,
for which the remedies provided in this chapter may be invoked.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.037 TIME OF ESSENCE.
   Whenever this chapter, or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder, shall set forth any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf
of a franchisee, such time shall be deemed of the essence, and any failure of a
franchisee to perform within the time set forth shall constitute a material
breach of the terms of this chapter and shall entitle the city to invoke all
penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all other legal or
equitable remedies available to the city.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.038 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   (1)   Franchisees shall comply in all respects with the FCC’s
regulations governing equal opportunity.
      (2)   Franchisees shall also comply with all other applicable equal
opportunity government regulations whether federal, state, or local.
   (B)   Franchisees shall afford equal opportunity in employment to all
qualified persons, and no person shall be discriminated against because of
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, sex, or age.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.039 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in the city, any communications
service by means of a system in the rights-of-way unless a franchise therefor
has first been obtained from the city, and unless such franchise is in full
force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, erect, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove, or restore within any public street in the
city, equipment, or facilities for distributing any communications service
through a system, unless a franchise authorizing such use of such rights-of-way
has first been obtained from the city, and unless such franchise is in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS
§ 111.050 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT A FRANCHISE.
   Unless otherwise specifically authorized under applicable federal or state
law, or otherwise provided by ordinance, it shall be unlawful for any person to
own, erect, install, maintain, operate, repair, replace, remove, or restore any
facilities in the rights-of-way in the city that are used to provide
communications services without a valid, unexpired franchise from the city.
Unless otherwise provided hereinafter by the city ordinance, reseller service
providers and lessees shall not be required to obtain a franchise. Private
communication systems shall not require a franchise, but shall be licensed
pursuant to §
111.030.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.051 FRANCHISES NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   The authority granted by the city in any franchise shall be for the non-
exclusive use of the rights-of-way. The city specifically reserves the right to
grant, at any time, such additional franchises or other rights to use the
rights-of-way for any purpose to any other person, including itself, as it
deems appropriate, subject to all applicable laws.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.052 NATURE OF RIGHTS GRANTED BY ANY FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Franchises shall not convey title, equitable or legal, in the rights-
of-way, and shall give only the right to occupy rights-of-way, for the purposes
and for the period stated in this chapter and as may be further limited by the
franchise. No franchise may excuse franchisee from obtaining appropriate access
or attachment agreements before locating its facilities on another person’s
facilities.
   (B)   All franchises shall be deemed to incorporate and be limited by the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.053 APPLICATION AND FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for an original franchise granted hereunder shall
be filed with the city pursuant to the advertisement. All applications received
by the city from the applicants will become the sole property of the city.
      (2)   Applicants shall submit all requested information as provided by
the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   The following information must be complete and verified as true by the
applicant.
      (1)   Application fee. Applications shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee of $2,500 payable to the city. The application fee
shall be established at the rate set forth above, effective upon final passage
of this chapter. Thereafter, the application fee shall be increased every two
years, in increments of $10, if required, based on the most recently-published
Consumer Price Index (CPI) at the time. The application fee shall defray in
whole or part the city’s costs to process any application filed under this
chapter and negotiate, award, and administer any franchise.
      (2)   Name and address of applicant. The applicant’s name, address, e-
mail address, and telephone and facsimile numbers; date of application and
signature of applicant or appropriate corporate officer(s); the name, address,
and e-mail address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a local
representative who shall be available at all times; and information regarding
how to contact the local representative in an emergency.
      (3)   Description of proposed system. Applicant shall provide a
description of the proposed system. At a minimum, the description shall
include:
         (a)   General description of the project by geographical area;
         (b)   Provide a description of the proposed system components to
include, but not be limited to:
            1.   Anticipated number and general location of small cell
antennas;
            2.   Location (aerial/underground) of fiber. Where possible,
provide estimated percent aerial and percent underground; and
            3.   Anticipated ground level elements (GLEs) and general
locations.
         (c)   For underground fiber installation, discuss proposed
installation methodologies. The narrative shall address compliance with FCC
standards as related to applicable equipment such as small cell antennas and
current acceptable RF design standards currently in practice as well as to
those standards found in the Louisville Metro Public Works and Assets Utility
Policy, latest revision; and
         (d)   Discuss anticipated project phasing based on geographic and/or
right-of-way limitations, limitations imposed by local events and those
internal limitations affected by finance and project logistics.
      (4)   Communications service. A statement setting forth a description of
all the types of communications service the applicant plans to provide over the
system.
      (5)   Applicant organization. The applicant shall be a corporation or
limited liability company, partnership, or other business entity authorized to
do business in the state, as certified by the Secretary of State. The applicant
must fully disclose the ownership of the proposed facilities and system.
      (6)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   Supplementary, additional or other information that the
applicant deems reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time
as its application but must be separately bound and submitted with the above
number of copies. The city may, at its discretion, consider such additional
information as part of the application;
         (b)   Applications may be modified at any time prior to the opening of
the applications; provided, that any modifications must be duly executed in the
manner that the applicant’s application must be executed;
         (c)   A copy of the applicant’s certificate of authority from the
Public Service Commission (“PSC”) where the applicant is lawfully required to
have such certificate from the PSC;
         (d)   A copy of the applicant’s certificate of authority from the FCC
where the applicant is lawfully required to have such certificate from the FCC;
         (e)   A copy of all insurance policies and certificates required under
this chapter;
         (f)   A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant agrees to
be bound by all provisions of the franchise and agrees to obtain all applicable
permits and authorizations prior to constructing, installing, or operating a
system in the rights-of-way; and
         (g)   The information provided by applicant shall be certified as true
and correct, and applicant shall be responsible to certify to the city any
material changes to the information provided in the completed application
during the term of any franchise.
      (7)   Supplementation to applications. The city reserves the right to
require such supplementary, additional, or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
      (8)   The city’s rights reserved. The city reserves the right to waive
all formalities and/or technicalities where the best interest of the city may
be served.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.054 STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OR RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE.
   Franchises shall be granted in accordance with Kentucky Constitution §§ 163
and 164. The city shall grant franchises or renewals to any eligible franchisee
for the right and privilege to construct, own, operate, repair, replace, and
maintain facilities in, through and along the city’s rights-of-way for the
purposes of providing communications service on a nonexclusive basis within the
city, subject, however, to the standards, terms and conditions herein set forth
within this chapter, which shall be deemed incorporated into every franchise,
and any special conditions as may be provided for in the franchise. All
franchisees shall be required to obtain and maintain any necessary and lawful
permit, license certification, grant, registration, or any other authorization
required by any appropriate governmental entity, including, but not limited to,
the city, the FCC, and the PSC. The city may establish standard franchises
setting forth the minimum requirements for all franchisees.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.055 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise granted hereunder, together with the rights, privileges and
authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after the
effective date of a resolution granting a franchise hereunder; provided, that
on or before that date franchisee shall:
   (A)   Enter into and execute such agreements and documents as required by
the city that are consistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   File such bond or bonds as required in this chapter; and
   (C)   Advise the city in writing of franchisee’s address for mail and
official notifications from the city.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.056 USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY; POLICE POWERS; FRANCHISEE’S USE SUBORDINATE.
   (A)   (1)   A franchisee shall construct and maintain its facilities in
accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, including all
permit requirements, the Louisville Metro Public Works and Assets Utility
Policy, and fee payments, and all other city codes and ordinances in effect as
of the date of the award of its franchise or thereafter adopted or amended, to
the full extent permitted by state or federal law. The grant of a franchise
does not in any way affect the continuing authority of the city through the
proper exercise of its home rule or statutory powers to adopt and enforce
ordinances necessary to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the
public. The city makes no express or implied representation or warranty
regarding its rights to authorize the installation or construction of
facilities on any particular segment of rights-of-way. The burden and
responsibility for making all such determinations in advance of construction or
installation shall be entirely upon the franchisee.
      (2)   The use of the rights-of-way authorized by any franchise shall in
all matters be subordinate to the city’s use and rights therein.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing:
      (1)   All rights and privileges granted herein are subject to the police
powers of the city and its rights under applicable laws and regulations to
regulate the construction, operation, and maintenance of franchisee’s system,
including, but not limited to, the right to adopt and enforce additional
ordinances and regulations as the city shall find necessary in the exercise of
its police powers, the right to adopt and enforce applicable zoning, building,
permitting, and safety ordinances and regulations, the right to adopt and
enforce regulations relating to equal employment opportunities, and the right
to adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations concerning the rights-of-way
and utility standards;
      (2)   The city reserves the right to exercise its police powers,
notwithstanding anything in this chapter and in any franchise to the contrary.
Any conflict between the provisions of this chapter or a franchise and any
other present or future lawful exercise of the city’s police powers shall be
resolved in favor of the latter;
      (3)   The franchisee shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter or any subsequently adopted amendments to this
chapter, by any failure of the city on any one or more occasions to seek, or
insist upon, compliance with such requirements or provisions; and
      (4)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to
any present and future legislation or resolution, which may be enacted by the
city, and to the Louisville Metro Public Works and Assets Utility Policy.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.057 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The franchisee shall assign a management level individual to
coordinate with and assist the city in the development of emergency plans.
   (B)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster or other emergency
situation in the city, it shall become necessary in the reasonable judgment of
the city to cut raise, lower or relocate any facilities, such cutting raising,
lowering or relocating may be done, and any repairs rendered necessary thereby
shall be made by the franchisee, at its sole expense.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.058 TERM.
   A franchise shall be for a term not to exceed 20 years.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.059 FRANCHISE FEES.
   During any period of time which the city opts to forego imposing a franchise
fee and to instead participate in the multichannel video programming and
service tax system set forth under KRS 136.600 et seq., a franchisee shall not
be required to pay franchise fees. Before imposing franchise fees, the city
will provide at least 60 days’ prior written notice to current franchisees. If
at any time the city elects to exercise its constitutional right to impose and
collect franchise fees, the franchisee’s first franchise fee payment under this
chapter shall be paid to the city the later of 120 days after such election, or
30 days after the last day of the first calendar quarter expiring after
franchisee received written notice from the city that the city has opted to
exercise its constitutional right to impose and collect franchisee fees.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.060 TIMING OF PAYMENT OF FRANCHISE FEES.
   Unless otherwise agreed to in writing, all franchise fees shall be due and
payable on a quarterly basis and payment shall be made on or before the date
which is 30 calendar days after the last day of the calendar quarter for which
the payment applies (the “due date”); provided, however, that in the event that
a franchisee ceases to provide communications service for any reason (including
as a result of a sale or transfer of the franchisee’s system), such franchisee
shall make a final payment of any amounts owed to the city on or before the
date which is 30 calendar days after the date on which its operations in the
city cease (which shall be deemed a “due date” for purposes of this chapter).
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.061 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS AND UNDER PAYMENTS.
   If any franchise fee, or any portion thereof, is not received by the city on
or before the due date, interest thereon shall accrue from the due date until
received, at the rate of 1.5% per month, unless such other maximum rate is
established by applicable law.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.062 FEE STATEMENT.
   In the event that the city imposes a franchisee fee, any franchise fee
payment shall be accompanied by a statement (a “fee statement”) showing the
manner in which the franchise fee was calculated. Within 90 calendar days
following the end of any calendar year in which the city imposes a franchise
fee, each franchisee shall submit a statement, certified as true, setting forth
the amount of linear feet of rights-of-way occupied by it facilities; provided,
however, that in the event that a franchisee ceases to provide communications
service for any reason (including as a result of a transfer), such franchisee
shall provide such a statement within 30 calendar days after the date on which
its operations in the city cease. In calculating the amount of linear feet of
rights-of-way occupied by its facilities, a franchise shall include all
facilities, including antenna and other wireless facilities, and all facilities
whether installed underneath the rights-of-way or on poles or other structures
above the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.063 NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION.
   No acceptance by the city of any franchise fee or any other payment shall be
construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor
shall acceptance of any franchise fee or any other payment be construed as a
release of any claim of the city.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.064 DESCRIPTION OF COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
   During the term of the franchise, the franchisee shall provide the city with
a description of any material changes to the types of communications service
offered over its facilities in the rights-of-way within the city during the
prior year. Any individual communications service or item for which the
franchisee has a separate charge shall be considered a separate communications
service.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.065 FRANCHISE FEE NOT A TAX; PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   The franchise fee is compensation for the use of the rights-of-way and shall
in no way be deemed a tax of any kind. The franchise fees required herein shall
be in addition to, not in lieu of, any and all taxes, charges, assessments,
licenses, fees, and impositions otherwise applicable to franchisee that are or
may be imposed by the city. A franchisee shall be fully responsible for the
payment of all applicable taxes.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.066 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchisee shall provide the city with written notice of any transfer or
assignment of the franchise. A franchisee shall not sell, assign, sublet,
dispose of, or otherwise transfer a franchise (or any of the rights or
privileges granted by such franchise), the franchisee’s system, or control of
franchisee to another entity other than by operation of law or to an entity
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the franchisee,
without the prior written consent of the city. No such consent shall be
required, however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other
hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights, title, or interest of the
franchisee in the franchise or system to secure indebtedness. The city’s
consent to such a transfer shall not be withheld if the acquiring entity would
have qualified for an original franchise had it applied and if the acquiring
entity demonstrates it has the same or equivalent insurance policies and bonds
in place as is required of the original franchisee. Nothing in any approval by
the city of any transfer pursuant to this section shall be construed to waive,
release or delegate any rights or powers of the city to hold the original
franchisee liable for any violation of its franchise.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.067 FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE AND PRIVILEGE.
   In case of failure on the part of a franchisee, its successors and assigns,
to comply with any of the material provisions of this chapter or its franchise,
or if the franchisee, its successors and assigns, should do or cause to be done
any material act or thing prohibited by or in violation of this chapter or the
terms of its franchise, the franchisee, its successors and assigns, shall
forfeit all rights and privileges permitted by this chapter and its franchise,
and all rights hereunder shall cease, terminate and become null and void;
provided, that said forfeiture shall not take effect until the city shall carry
out the proceedings specified in §
111.033(B).
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.068 SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   In the event that the city imposes a franchise fee, every franchisee
shall provide to the city an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of
$25,000, or one-half of the annual franchise fee owed, whichever is less, to
secure the payment of the franchise fee for the first two years in which the
franchisee is subject to a franchise fee. If, thereafter, there has been no
default in paying the franchise fee nor any late payment of the franchise fee,
the letter of credit shall be released.
   (B)   This section is inoperative during any period of time during which the
city elects to participate in the state baseline and local growth funds under
KRS 136.600 et seq. and to have franchisees taxed accordingly.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.069 SPECIAL RULES FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES.
   Nothing herein requires the city to apply the provisions of this chapter to
a governmental entity if the city determines that it is not in the public
interest to do so, and nothing in this chapter shall be read to require a
governmental entity to comply with this chapter where the city cannot enforce
the ordinance against such entity as a matter of law. The city is authorized to
enter into agreements with other governmental agencies to facilitate the city’s
use and management of the rights-of-way, and such agreements shall be
enforceable according to their respective terms and notwithstanding any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT; FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.080 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
   A franchisee shall be subject to and comply with the additional or
supplementary terms and conditions of any encroachment on rights-of-way permit,
as may be amended from time to time, with these terms and conditions being
incorporated herein by reference and those terms and conditions of franchisee’s
encroachment permit deemed a condition of that franchisee’s franchise.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.081 ADDITIONAL FACILITIES; REQUIREMENTS; PLANNED INFRASTRUCTURE.
   When a franchisee installs any new underground facilities, the franchisee
shall, unless waived by the city, simultaneously install conduit provided by
the city (“city conduit”). The city shall reimburse franchisee for any marginal
or additional costs incurred by franchisee in connection with installation of
the city conduit. The city conduit shall be installed in accordance with the
city specifications and consistent with sound engineering practice. No
franchise fee shall apply to any city conduit.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.082 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   Upon expiration of a franchise, whether by lapse of time, by agreement
between the franchisee and the city, or by forfeiture thereof, the franchisee
shall remove, at its sole cost, from the rights-of-way any and all of its
facilities that are the subject of such franchise within a reasonable time
after such expiration, not to exceed 90 days, and, it shall be the duty of the
franchisee immediately upon such removal to restore the rights-of-way from
which the facilities are removed to as good condition as the same were before
the removal was effected and as required by the city. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the city may allow facilities to be left in place when the city
determines, in its sole discretion, that it is not practical or desirable to
require removal.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.083 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES; THIRD-PARTY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Relocation of facilities.
      (1)   Whenever the city shall in its exercise of the public interest
request of the franchisee to relocate or reinstall any of its facilities, the
franchisee shall, within ten days remove, relocate, or reinstall any such
facilities as may be reasonably necessary to meet the request.
      (2)   The cost of such relocation, removal, or reinstallation of the
facilities shall be the exclusive obligation of the franchisee.
      (3)   Upon request of any other person requesting relocation of
facilities and holding a validly issued building or moving permit of the city,
a franchisee shall, within ten days, temporarily raise, lower, or relocate its
wires or other facilities as may be required for the person to exercise the
rights under the permit; provided, however, that the franchisee may require
such permit holder to make payment to franchisee in advance for any expenses
incurred by the franchisee to temporarily move its facilities pursuant to such
person’s request.
   (B)   Third-party facilities.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Facilities located above the “communication worker safety zone”
as such term is defined in the National Electrical Safety Code; or
         (b)   Any electric supply facilities wherever located.
      (2)   Make-ready costs that are to be paid by attacher include, without
limitation, all costs and expenses to relocate or alter the attachments or
facilities of any pre-existing third-party user as may be necessary to
accommodate attacher’s attachment.
      (3)   Upon approval of an attachment application, the attacher may
relocate or alter the attachments or facilities of any pre-existing third-party
user as may be necessary to accommodate the attacher’s attachment using pole
owner approved contractors; provided, however, that attacher will not
effectuate a relocation or alteration of a pre-existing third-party user’s
facilities that causes or would reasonably be expected to cause a customer
outage (this division (B) does not authorize activity requiring an electric
supply outage) without first providing 30 days’ prior written notice to the
pre-existing third- party user. In the event the pre-existing third-party users
of such other facilities fail to transfer or rearrange their facilities within
30 days from receipt of notice of relocation or alteration of a pre-existing
third-party user’s facilities that causes or would reasonably be expected to
cause a customer outage, attacher may undertake such work. Within 30 days of
the completion of any relocation or alteration, the attacher will send notice
of the move and as-built reports to the pre-existing third-party user and the
owner(s) of all poles or other structures on which such relocations or
alterations were made.
      (4)   The as-built reports will include a unique field label identifier,
and an address or coordinates. Upon receipt of the as-built reports, the pre-
existing third-party user and pole or structure owner(s) may conduct an
inspection within 14 days at the attacher’s expense. The attacher will pay the
actual, reasonable, and documented expenses incurred by the pre-existing third-
party user and pole or structure owner(s) for the inspection.
      (5)   If any such relocation or alteration results in the facilities of
the pre-existing third-party user on the pole or other structure failing to
conform with the applicable pole owner’s standards, the pre-existing third-
party user will notify the attacher within seven days of the inspection. In the
notice, the pre-existing third-party user will elect to either:
         (a)   Perform the correction itself and bill the attacher for the
actual, reasonable, and documented costs of the correction; or
         (b)   Instruct the attacher to correct such conditions at the
attacher’s expense.
      (6)   Any post-inspection corrections performed by the attacher must be
completed within 30 days of such notification. As a condition of exercising the
ability to relocate, rearrange, or alter a pre-existing third-party user’s
facilities pursuant to this division (B), the attacher shall indemnify, defend
and hold harmless the owner or owners of all poles or other structures on which
such relocation, rearrangement, or alteration takes place, the affiliates of
such owner or owners, and the officers, directors, and employees of such owner
or owners and their affiliates (each an “indemnitee”) from and against all
third-party damage, loss, claim, demand, suit, liability, penalty, or
forfeiture of every kind and nature, including, but not limited to, costs and
expenses of defending against the same, payment of any settlement or judgment
therefor and reasonable attorney’s fees, that are actually and reasonably
incurred by an indemnitee, by reason of any claim by an affected pre-existing
third-party user or any person or entity claiming through such pre-existing
third-party user arising from such relocation, rearrangement, or alteration.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.084 FRANCHISEE RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all reasonable costs incurred by the
city that are directly associated with the franchisee’s erecting, installing,
maintaining, operating, repairing, replacing, removing, or restoring its
facilities in the rights-of-way. A franchisee shall be responsible for its own
costs incurred in removing or relocating its facilities when required by the
city due to the city requirements relating to maintenance and use of the
rights-of-way for the city purposes.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.085 INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   During the term of any franchise, a franchisee shall obtain and maintain at
its sole expense, all insurance and bonds required by this chapter. It is
expressly understood that the city does not in any way represent that the
specified limits of liability or coverage or policy forms are sufficient or
adequate to protect the interest or liabilities of franchisee.
   (A)   (1)   The franchisee shall file with the city:
         (a)   A franchise bond in the amount of $1,000,000 which shall be
required to be in place for the entire term of the franchise; and
         (b)   A performance bond in an amount to be determined by the City.
      (2)   In no event shall the amount of the performance bond required by
the city exceed the reasonable costs of repairing the rights-of-way in the
event of non-performance by the franchisee. The performance bond shall provide
for the faithful performance of construction and installation of the
franchisee’s system. Two years after demonstration of the completion of the
construction of the system by franchisee to the city, the city shall release
the performance bond.
   (B)   The performance bond shall indemnify the city in its own right and as
trustee, from any damages or losses arising out of the failure of franchisee to
faithfully perform and satisfactorily complete construction of the system in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   The failure of franchisee to comply with its obligations under this
chapter or the franchise as determined by the city shall entitle the city to
draw against either or both of franchisee’s performance or franchise bonds.
   (D)   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the performance and
franchise bonds required hereunder are in addition to all other rights of the
city, whether reserved by this chapter or authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such performance or franchise
bonds shall affect any other rights the city may have.
   (E)   Unless otherwise released by the city, the performance or franchise
bonds required hereunder shall not expire or be materially altered without 30
days’ written notice and without securing and delivering to the city a
substitute, renewal, and replacement bond in conformance with this chapter. In
the event the city does draw monies against the performance bonds required
hereunder, within ten days thereafter, the franchisee shall pay such funds to
the bonding company as necessary to bring said performance and/or franchise
bonds back to the applicable principal, where it shall continue to be
maintained. The performance and franchise bonds required hereunder shall
contain the following endorsements: “It is hereby understood and agreed that
this bond may not be reduced, altered or canceled by the franchisee or surety
without 30 days’ written notice, by certified mail, to the City of Windy Hills.
Such termination or cancellation shall have no effect on any liability incurred
or accrued under this bond prior to the effective date of such termination or
cancellation.”
   (F)   Immediately upon the effective date of the resolution granting a
franchise under this chapter, franchisee shall file with the city the following
proof of liability insurance issued by a company(ies) authorized to do business
in the commonwealth with an AM Best Rating of A- or better:
      (1)   General liability insurance, via an occurrence form, covering
bodily injury, including death, personal injury, and property damage, and
including completed operations, contractual liability, independent contractors
protective liability and personal injury liability protection. The minimum
acceptable limit of liability amount is $5,000,000 per occurrence and aggregate
under a combined single limit. This policy must include the city, including its
Mayor and City Council members, as additional insureds as respects all
operations of the insured franchisee. This policy must cover the city for
damages resulting from any transmission over a system, the city reserves the
right to make reasonable increases in the required amount of insurance coverage
herein at any time. Nothing herein is intended as a limitation on the extent of
any legal liability of the franchisee;
      (2)   Automobile liability, insuring all owned, non-owned, and hired
motor vehicles. The minimum coverage liability limit is $5,000,000 combined
single limit for any one accident. The limit of liability may be subject to
increase according to any applicable state or federal transportation
regulations; and
      (3)   Workers’ compensation (if applicable), insuring the employers’
obligations under KRS Chapter 342 at statutory limits, and employers’
liability, $100,000 each accident/$500,000 disease - policy limit/$100,000
disease - each employee.
   (G)   The franchisee shall maintain on file with the city a certificate of
insurance certifying the coverage required under this chapter, which
certificate shall be subject to the approval of the city as to the adequacy of
the certificate and of the insurance certified under the requirements of this
chapter, the city may at its sole discretion require a certified copy of the
insurance policy(s) required under this ordinance, specifically endorsed to
include all liability assumed by franchisee hereunder. Such policy(s) and
certificate shall be identified on their face by the name of franchisee, and
shall be submitted to the city, in accordance with the terms and conditions of
this chapter. Failure to maintain adequate insurance as required under this
chapter shall be deemed a breach of the franchise.
   (H)   The city reserves the right to make increases in the amount of
insurance coverage referred to in this section at any time.
   (I)   The following clause shall be added to franchisee’s (and
subcontractors) commercial general liability policies: “The City of Windy
Hills, its elected and appointed officials, employees, agents and successors
are added as an “additional insured” as respects operations of the Named
Insured performed relative to the contract.”
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.086 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to performing any construction or installation work in the
public rights-of-way, the franchisee shall apply to the city for any necessary
permit, and shall include descriptive information about the specific location
of any lines, facilities, boxes or related equipment.
      (2)   All terms and conditions of the permit application shall apply and
be adhered to.
   (B)   The franchisee shall furnish detailed plans of the work to be done
within the rights-of-way and provide other such information as required by the
city.
   (C)   The franchisee shall coordinate any construction work within the
rights-of-way with the city and shall begin construction work only after
approval of the city.
   (D)   All permits issued by the city shall be conspicuously displayed at all
times at the indicated work site and shall be available for inspection by city
personnel.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.087 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The franchisee shall notify the city, in writing, at least 15 days
prior to construction.
   (B)   Such written notification shall contain the location of the
construction, the starting date, and the estimated completion date.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.088 STANDARDS.
   Any work required or performed pursuant to this chapter shall be done in
accordance with federal, state and local law and the National Electric Safety
Code.
   (A)   In the event that the franchisee leases space on the poles or in the
conduits of an electric or other utility, the franchisee shall abide by the
construction and other requirements of that utility, and the granting of a
franchise by the city shall not be construed or interpreted in any way to
alleviate the franchisee’s responsibilities and obligations to the pole or
conduit owner.
   (B)   The franchisee, its contractors, sub-subcontractors, and anyone
directly or indirectly employed by the franchisee shall conduct such operations
so as to promote and preserve the public safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
   (C)   All construction, installation or maintenance by the franchisee shall
be completed with diligence and with respect to all interests and rights of the
public.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.089 TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The franchisee’s work in the rights-of-way shall be accomplished with
a minimum of disruption and interference to the free flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic on the rights-of-way or public land.
   (B)   The franchisee shall maintain lanes of vehicular traffic in each
direction at all times during construction, installation, or maintenance
activity.
   (C)   Traffic-control devices to protect and control pedestrian and
vehicular traffic in any construction, maintenance, or installation areas may
be prescribed by the city in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.090 DELAY OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Improvements to city rights-of-way conducted by the city or its contractors
shall not be delayed by any franchisee work authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.091 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant a special exception to the requirements of this
chapter if a franchisee, upon application, demonstrates with written evidence
that:
      (1)   The exception will not create any threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare;
      (2)   The increased economic burden and the potential adverse impact on
the franchisee’s construction schedule resulting from the strict enforcement of
the requirement would actually or effectively prohibits the ability of
franchisee to provide communications service in the city; and
      (3)   The requirement unreasonably discriminates against the franchisee
in favor of another comparable communications service provider.
   (B)   Any special exceptions shall be granted in a non-discriminatory
manner.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.092 INSPECTIONS.
   All construction, installation and operation of the franchisee’s system in
the rights-of-way are subject to inspection by the city.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.093 REPAIR OF SUNKEN PAVEMENT OVER EXCAVATION.
   (A)   In case the pavement or the surface of the rights-of-way over any
excavation should become depressed or broken at any time within five years
after the excavation has been completed and before resurfacing of the rights-
of-way, natural wear of the surface excepted, the franchisee shall, upon
written notice from the city, immediately proceed to inspect the depressed or
broken area over the excavation to ascertain the cause of the failure.
   (B)   The franchisee shall make repairs to the installation or backfill and
have the pavement restored as specified by the city, within such time period as
may be specified by the city.
   (C)   If the pavement is not restored as specified by the city within the
time period specified by the city, and unless delayed by a strike or conditions
beyond franchisee’s control, the city may cause the work to be done after
giving franchisee 24 hours’ final notice.
   (D)   The cost thereof, including, but not limited to, any inspection costs
and administrative overhead incurred by the city, shall be assessed against the
franchisee.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.094 REMOVAL.
   (A)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued
for any reason by any franchisee for a continuous period of 12 months, or in
the event such system or facility has been installed in rights-of-way without
complying with requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted hereunder
have been terminated, cancelled or have expired, the franchisee shall promptly
remove from the rights-of-way all such facilities of such system, other than
any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place.
   (B)   In the event of such removal, the franchisee shall promptly restore
the rights-of-way from which such facilities have been removed to a condition
satisfactory to the city. Any facilities of a franchisee to be abandoned in
place, shall be abandoned in such manner as the city may prescribe. Upon a
permanent abandonment of the facilities of a franchisee in place, the
franchisee shall submit to the city an instrument to be approved by the city
transferring to the city the ownership of such facilities.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.095 MATERIALS.
   During any phase of construction, installation, maintenance or repair of the
system, the franchisee shall use materials of good and durable quality. All
such work shall be performed in a safe, thorough and reliable manner and in
compliance with the Louisville Metro Public Access and Utility Policy, as
amended.
(Ord. 2 S2018/2019, passed 10-8-2018)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Fees to be paid to General Fund
   
112.03   Basis of fee
   
112.04   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
112.05   Due date; interest and refunds
   
112.06   Written breakdown of collections
   
112.07   Inspection of accounts and records
   
112.08   Liability of agents
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis, based upon the following:
   (A)   PREMIUMS defined as premiums actually collected by an insurance
company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of policies and
contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and includes premiums
on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal business, as well as
all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned to policy holders.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license fee
imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the"base fee").
 
             Fire and Casualty                                     All Other
             Allied   Liability Vehicle Inland Marine Health Life  Risks Taxed
             Perils   Only
Initial Rate    5%    5%    5%   5%         0      5%
The base fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or federal law.
 
   (C)   ln addition to the base fee, an additional license fee is hereby
imposed upon each insurance company with respect to premiums equal to the
amount by which the credit for city local government premiums tax ("LGPT")
allowable under KRS 91A.080(12) against the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government ("Metro") LGPT exceeds the base fee under division (A) above.
   (D)   Example. The city and Metro currently impose a 5% LGPT on casualty
liability premiums. Assume Metro hereafter adopts an ordinance increasing its
countywide LGPT rate on casualty liability premiums to 10% and provides that
ordinance to the Kentucky Commissioner of insurance on or before March 23, 2019
(100 days prior to the July 1, 2019 effective date) so that the increase in the
Metro LGPT rate will be effective July 1, 2019. Beginning July 1, 2019, the
City of Windy Hills LGPT rate on casualty liability premiums will also be a
total of 10%.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.02 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the General Fund of
the city.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.03 BASIS OF FEE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums
and shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.04 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225:
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in KRS
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act, Pub. L. No. 111-03; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.05 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually by March 31 furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the city or a representative thereof to make
inspection of the books, accounts and records of the agent or insurance company
to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of collections.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.08 LIABILITY OF AGENTS.
   This section applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, willful failure to properly collect and remit the
license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter may constitute grounds for the
revocation of the license issued to an insurance company or agent under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 304 or may result in other penalties being imposed by
the State Office of Insurance.
(Ord. 5 S2018/2019, passed 3-11-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
(Reserved)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
CHAPTER 150: TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
Section
Temporary Portable Storage Containers
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Definition
   
150.03   Required action
Temporary Refuse Dumpsters
   
150.15   Purpose
   
150.16   Definition
   
150.17   Required action
 
   
150.99   Penalty
TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to amend the city’s land usage laws
concerning the increased usage of temporary portable storage containers
(commonly referred to as PODS). The City Council recognizes that the usage of
these containers is appropriate and necessary in certain circumstances.
However, the Council also finds that it is in the best interests of the
community to regulate the usage of mobile storage containers by monitoring the
number, location, and duration of use.
(Ord. 8 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Any structure, building, trailer, tent, or enclosure of
any kind used for storage of personal, commercial, or residential property
which any person intends to place on the lot with or on any lot immediately
adjacent to any permanent structure used for business, commercial, or
residential purpose; this would include TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
which are defined as a large container designed and rented, leased, or
purchased for the temporary storage of commercial property or residential
household goods, that does not contain a foundation or wheels for movement.
(Ord. 8 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.03 REQUIRED ACTION.
   (A)   The City Council may impose certain reasonable requirements as may be
required to keep the temporary structure from becoming unsightly to the
surrounding properties. No temporary structure or accessory structure can
remain on residential property within the city limits for more than 30 days.
   (B)   Pods must be well-maintained and in good working condition, displaying
the name or logo and telephone number of the owner of the pod, and be suitably
supported at each contact point to prevent damage to paved surfaces.
   (C)   Pods must be kept closed when not being actively used so as not to
pose a hazard to children or animals in the area.
   (D)   The pod must be placed on the drive behind the front line of the home
and cannot be placed on the right-of-way.
   (E)   Pods shall not block a public sidewalk.
   (F)   Pods placed on property for construction, remodeling, or demolition
projects shall be removed immediately upon the completion of the project. For
construction purposes, an extension of the 30-day rule may be allowed with
permission by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (G)   No pod shall be placed on streets, sides of streets, or areas
designated as “no parking”. Pods shall not be placed in public parking lots or
parks without written permission from the city.
   (H)   (1)   No more than two placements shall be allowed during any 12-month
period where the residence is under the same ownership.
      (2)   Separations of less than 30 days shall be considered the same as to
the initial placement date.
(Ord. 8 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
TEMPORARY REFUSE DUMPSTERS
§ 150.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to amend the city’s land usage laws
concerning the usage of temporary refuse dumpsters (commonly referred to as
DUMPSTERS). The City Council recognizes that the usage of these containers is
appropriate and necessary in certain circumstances. However, the Council also
finds that it is in the best interests of the community to regulate their usage
by monitoring the number, location, and duration of use.
(Ord. 9 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.16 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE DUMPSTER. Any portable container including dumpster bags used or
designed for collection of, transportation of, or disposal of refuse, waste,
construction/demolition materials, or the like.
(Ord. 9 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.17 REQUIRED ACTION.
   Dumpsters placed on residential property are subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   Dumpsters must be well-maintained and in good working condition,
displaying the name or logo and telephone number of the owner of the dumpster,
and be suitably supported at each contact point to prevent damage to paved
surfaces.
   (B)   Dumpsters must be covered when materials inside are easily airborne,
pose a hazard, emit an odor, or are otherwise offensive.
   (C)   Debris must be placed inside the dumpster, not along side or on top of
it.
   (D)   All dumpsters are required to be emptied when full.
   (E)   The dumpster must be placed on the drive behind the front line of the
home and not on the right-of-way.
   (F)   Dumpsters shall not block a public sidewalk.
   (G)   Dumpsters placed on property for construction, remodeling, or
demolition projects shall be removed immediately upon the completion of the
project. No dumpster shall be placed on the property for more than 30 days. If
required, an extension of 30 days may be granted by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (H)   No dumpster shall be placed on streets, sides of streets, or areas
designed as “no parking”. Dumpsters shall not be placed in public parking lots
or parks without prior written permission from the city.
   (I)   (1)   No more than two placements in any 12-month period will be
allowed where the residence is under the same ownership.
      (2)   Separations of less than 30 days shall be considered the same as to
the initial placement date.
(Ord. 9 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Temporary portable storage containers.
      (1)   There will be a $25 per day charge for any pod left over 30 days
that has not sought and received a time extension from the Code Enforcement
Officer, or one not removed after an approved extension has expired.
      (2)   The city may remove or have a container removed from a public
right-of-way, if the container is in violation of §§
150.01 through
150.03.
      (3)   The owner of the container, or if the owner cannot be determined,
the person placing it in the public right-of-way shall pay all costs, fees,
penalties, or other expenses incurred by the city in removal, storage fees, and
disposal of any container and its contents.
      (4)   If the container is not claimed within 30 days by its owner or
person responsible for placing it in the public right-of-way, it may be
disposed of as abandoned property, but disposal shall not diminish the
responsibility of the owner or the person responsible for placing the container
in the public right-of-way to pay all amounts due.
      (5)   The city shall not release a container from storage until all
amounts due under this division (B) have been paid.
      (6)   All fees, fines, costs, or expenses associated with the placement
of these containers shall be secured by a lien in favor of the city against the
property of the owner for which the container was placed and shall be enforced
by collection generally up to, and including foreclosure against said property.
   (C)   Temporary refuse dumpsters.
      (1)   There will be a $25 per day charge for any dumpster left over 30
days that has not sought and received a time extension from the Code
Enforcement Officer, or one not removed after an approved extension has
expired.
      (2)   The city may remove or have a container removed from a public
right-of-way, if the container is in violation of §§
150.15 through
150.17.
      (3)   The owner of the container, or if the owner cannot be determined,
the person placing it in the public right-of-way shall pay all costs, fees,
penalties, or other expenses incurred by the city in removal, storage fees, and
disposal of any container and its contents.
      (4)   If the container is not claimed within 30 days by its owner or
person responsible for placing it in the public right-of-way, it may be
disposed of as abandoned property, but disposal shall not diminish the
responsibility of the owner or the person responsible for placing the container
in the public right-of-way to pay all amounts due.
      (5)   The city shall not release a container from storage until all
amounts due under this division (C) have been paid.
      (6)   All fees, fines, costs, or expenses associated with the placement
of these containers shall be secured by a lien in favor of the city, against
the property of the owner for which the container was placed, and shall be
enforced by collection generally, up to and including foreclosure against said
property.
(Ord. 8 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017; Ord. 9 S16-17, passed 4-10-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   DEDICATIONS
      
V.   ZONING
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
13       9-13-1954   Granting a franchise to an electric company
18       3-21-1955   Granting a franchise to a natural gas company
89       10-14-1974  Granting a franchise to an electric/natural gas company
110      10-8-1979   Granting a franchise to a television service provider
111      4-14-1980   Granting a franchise to a television service provider
96-01    2-12-1996   Granting a franchise to a television service provider
5 S13-14 6-9-2014    Granting a franchise to a television service provider
5 S14-15 5-11-2015   Granting a franchise to a natural gas company
6 S14-15 5-11-2015   Granting a franchise to an electric company
4 S16-17 6-13-2016   Granting a communications franchise
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
11       4-12-1954   Annexation of property located northwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
12       6-14-1954   Annexation of property located northwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
24       8-17-1956   Annexation of property located to the west of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
25       8-17-1956   Annexation of property located northwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
26       8-17-1956   Annexation of property located southwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
27       8-17-1956   Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
28       8-17-1956   Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
29       8-17-1956   Annexation of property located east of and adjacent to the
                     boundary line
31       9-19-1956   Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
32       9-19-1956   Annexation of property located west of and adjacent to the
                     boundary line
33       9-19-1956   Annexation of property located northwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
34       9-19-1956   Annexation of property located southwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
35       9-19-1956   Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
36       9-19-1956   Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
37       9-19-1956   Annexation of property located east of and adjacent to the
                     boundary line
38       - -1956     Annexation of property located southeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
40       11-12-1956  Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
42       2-10-1957   Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
62       1-13-1969   Annexation of adjacent property
63       5-12-1969   Annexation of adjacent property
73       4-12-1971   Annexation of adjacent property
82       12-29-1972  Annexation of property known as Lot 52, Windhurst
                     Subdivision
88       9-14-1974   Annexation of adjacent property
97       9-13-1976   Annexation of adjacent property
100      11-8-1976   Annexation of adjacent property
130      7-8-1985    Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
131      7-8-1985    Annexation of property located northwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
133      11-11-1985  Annexation of property located northeast of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
134      12-9-1985   Annexation of property located northwest of and adjacent
                     to the boundary line
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
51       - -         Agreement with the county concerning the road system
87-01    5-26-1987   Interlocal agreement concerning risk management
 
TABLE IV: DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
120      - -1982     Declaration that Pin Oak Lane is a dedicated street
121      - -1982     Declaration that Hill Top Road is a dedicated street
04-05    8-9-2004    Acceptance of Westgate Place, as shown on minor
                     subdivision plat (subdivision of Lot 20)
08-01    1-14-2008   Acceptance of that street known as Killiney Place
 
TABLE V: ZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
44       5-12-1958   Establishing a commercial zone in the northeastern corner
                     of the city
45       7-14-1958   Establishing a commercial zone in the tract of land east
                     of Rudy Lane
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites                Code Section
6.050                    32.43
6.955 to 6.975           33.04
18A.225                  112.04
31                       34.26
41.240(4)                33.05
42.450 to 42.495         33.04
61.168                   34.26
61.169                   34.26
61.810                   37.076
61.823(2) to (4)         91.20
61.870 et seq.           111.005
                         34.02;
                         34.27;
61.870 to 61.884         37.073;
                         37.079;
                         37.080
61.870(1)                34.01
61.870(2)                34.01
61.870(3)                34.01
61.870(4)                34.01
61.870(5)                34.01
61.870(6)                34.01
61.870(7)                34.01
61.870(8)                34.01
61.870(10)               34.01
61.872 to 61.884         37.020
61.872(1) - (3)          34.15
61.872(4)                34.16
61.872(5)                34.17
61.872(6)                34.18
61.874(1)                34.22
61.874(2)                34.22
61.874(3)                34.23
61.874(4)                34.23
61.874(5)                34.24
61.874(6)                34.25
61.878                   34.01
61.878(1)                34.26
61.878(2)                34.26
61.878(3)                34.26
61.878(4)                34.26
61.878(5)                34.26
61.878(6)                34.26
61.880(1)                34.19;
                         34.26
61.882                   31.36
61.884                   34.21
62.060                   31.04
65.003                   37.003
65.067                   31.04
65.120                   Ch. 72
65.8801 to 65.8838       36.20;
                         36.21
65.8815(5)               36.24
                         92.04;
65.8840                  95.33;
                         95.34
65.8840(1)(b)            92.01
65.8840(1)(e)            92.01
65.8840(1)(h)            92.01
65.8840(1)(j)            92.01
65.8840(3)               92.04
65.8840(4)               92.04
65.8840(8)               92.04
65.8840(9)               92.04
65.8840(10)              92.04
66.660                   91.06
82.082                   37.003
83A                      31.20
83A.010 to 83A.120       30.01
83A.010(5)               10.02
83A.010(6)               10.02
83A.010(8)               10.02
83A.030(1)               30.02
83A.040(1)               31.21
83A.040(2)(a), (6)       31.21
83A.040(2)(c)            31.21
83A.040(2)(d)            31.21
83A.040(3)               31.21
83A.040(4)               32.01
83A.040(5)               32.02
83A.040(6)               32.02
83A.040(7)               31.21;
                         32.02
83A.040(8)               31.21;
                         32.02
83A.040(9)               31.03
83A.050                  31.20;
                         32.01
83A.060(1)               32.30
83A.060(2)               32.31
83A.060(3)               32.32
83A.060(4)               32.33
83A.060(5)               32.35
83A.060(6)               32.17
83A.060(7)               32.33
83A.060(8)               32.36
83A.060(8)(a), (b)       32.37
83A.060(9)               32.38
83A.060(10)              32.39
83A.060(11)              32.40
83A.060(12)              32.41
83A.060(13)              32.41
83A.060(14)              32.42
83A.060(15)              32.43
83A.065                  10.99
83A.070                  31.02
83A.070(1)               31.02
83A.070(2)               31.02
83A.070(3)               31.02
83A.075                  31.02
83A.080                  31.39;
                         37.004
83A.080(2), (3)          31.35
83A.080(3)               31.03
83A.080(4)               31.20
83A.080(5)               31.20
83A.085                  31.36;
                         31.37
83A.087                  31.39
83A.090                  10.18
83A.130(1)               30.01
83A.130(2)               30.02
83A.130(3)               31.21
83A.130(4)               31.21
83A.130(5)               32.15
83A.130(6)               32.34
83A.130(7)               31.21
83A.130(8)               31.21
83A.130(9)               31.21
83A.130(10)              31.21
83A.130(11)              32.03
83A.130(12)              32.03
83A.130(13)              32.03
83A.175                  32.02
91A.010                  33.01
91A.010(4)               10.02
91A.010(8)               10.02
91A.020                  33.02
91A.030                  33.03
91A.040                  33.04
91A.050                  33.04
91A.060                  33.05
91A.080                  112.08;
                         112.99
91A.080(12)              112.01
91A.200                  33.21
91A.210                  33.20
91A.220                  33.21
91A.230                  33.22
91A.240                  33.23
91A.250                  33.24
91A.260                  33.25
91A.270                  33.25
91A.280                  33.27
91A.290                  33.28
107                      33.21
116 through 121          31.20
118.305(7)               32.02
131.010(6)               112.05
132.285                  35.01
134.800                  35.04
134.810                  35.04
136.600 et seq.          111.059;
                         111.068
154                      34.26
174.100                  91.20
174.100(1)               91.21
174.100(2)               91.22
174.100(3)               91.23
174.100(4)               91.24
174.100(5)               91.25
178.290                  91.06
186A.190                 72.27
189.020                  71.32
189.285                  73.02
189.287                  73.01
189.330(8)               71.02
189.338                  70.20
189.450(5)               72.03
189.450(6)               72.03
189.580                  71.15
1889.635(8)(b)1.a. to e. 34.01
189.725                  72.08
189.930                  71.31
189.940                  72.13
189.990                  70.20;
                         72.99
189.990(1)               72.99
189.993(8)               71.99
227.550                  92.04
304 , Subtitle 17B       112.04
342                      111.085;
                         112.04
342                      112.04
376.275(1)               72.27
376.275(2)               72.27
411.500 through 411.570  Ch. 92
                         33.04;
424                      33.24;
                         33.25
424.120                  33.04
424.190(2)               33.04
424.220                  33.04
424.220(6)(b)            33.04
431.005                  31.39
446.010(1)               10.02
446.010(2)               10.02
446.010(9)               10.02
446.010(10)              10.02
446.010(12)              10.02
446.010(13)              10.02
446.010(14)              10.02
446.010(15)              10.02
446.010(17)              10.02
446.010(18)              10.02
446.010(23)              10.02
446.010(25)              10.02
446.010(26)              10.02
446.010(27)              10.02
446.010(28)              10.02
446.010(30)              10.02
446.010(31)              10.02
446.010(33)              10.02
446.010(37)              10.02
446.010(39)              10.02
446.010(43)              10.02
446.010(46)              10.02
446.010(47)              10.02
446.010(49)              10.02
446.010(55)              10.02
446.020(1)               10.03
446.020(2)               10.03
446.030                  10.04
446.050                  10.05
446.060                  10.06
446.080(1)               10.03
446.080(3)               10.03
446.080(4)               10.03
446.090                  10.06
446.100                  10.08
446.110                  10.09
446.140                  10.01
534.040(2)(c)            10.99
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
9            1-11-1954   71.30;
                         71.99
11           4-12-1954   TSO Table II
12           6-14-1954   TSO Table II
13           9-13-1954   TSO Table I
18           3-21-1955   TSO Table I
24           8-17-1956   TSO Table II
25           8-17-1956   TSO Table II
26           8-17-1956   TSO Table II
27           8-17-1956   TSO Table II
28           8-17-1956   TSO Table II
29           8-17-1956   TSO Table II
31           9-19-1956   TSO Table II
32           9-19-1956   TSO Table II
33           9-19-1956   TSO Table II
34           9-19-1956   TSO Table II
35           9-19-1956   TSO Table II
36           9-19-1956   TSO Table II
37           9-19-1956   TSO Table II
38           - -1956     TSO Table II
40           11-12-1956  TSO Table II
42           2-10-1957   TSO Table II
44           5-12-1958   TSO Table V
45           7-14-1958   TSO Table V
51           - -         TSO Table III
62           1-13-1969   TSO Table II
63           5-12-1969   TSO Table II
73           4-12-1971   TSO Table II
82           12-29-1972  TSO Table II
85           11-12-1973  50.08
88           9-14-1974   TSO Table II
89           10-14-1974  TSO Table I
92           5-12-1975   72.13;
                         72.99
97           9-13-1976   TSO Table II
100          11-8-1976   TSO Table II
103          2-13-1978   72.43;
                         72.99
104          7-10-1978   72.13;
                         72.99
                         50.01—
105          8-14-1978   50.07;
                         50.99
110          10-8-1979   TSO Table I
111          4-14-1980   TSO Table I
120          - -1982     TSO Table IV
121          - -1982     TSO Table IV
130          7-8-1985    TSO Table II
131          7-8-1985    TSO Table II
133          11-11-1985  TSO Table II
134          12-9-1985   TSO Table II
87-01        5-26-1987   TSO Table III
                         50.35—
92-04        9-14-1992   50.37;
                         50.99
                         37.001—
                         37.004;
                         37.015—
                         37.022;
94-06        12-12-1994  37.035—
                         37.040;
                         37.055;
                         37.070—
                         37.080;
                         37.999
96-01        2-12-1996   TSO Table I
                         93.01—
97-04        7-14-1997   93.04;
                         93.99
00-01        6-12-2000   95.30;
                         95.99
                         95.31—
00-02        6-12-2000   95.34;
                         95.99
04-05        8-9-2004    TSO Table IV
05-03        10-10-2005  32.16
06-04        8-14-2006   34.02
08-01        1-14-2008   TSO Table IV
10-04        6-14-2010   31.36
10-05        6-14-2010   31.37
11-01        4-11-2011   32.16
12-01        1-9-2012    90.01;
                         90.99
                         36.01—
                         36.09;
12-04        10-8-2012   95.01—
                         95.16;
                         95.99
12-05        10-8-2012   33.40—
                         33.42
4 S13-14     2-10-2014   36.01
5 S13-14     6-9-2014    TSO Table I
5 S14-15     5-11-2015   TSO Table I
6 S14-15     5-11-2015   TSO Table I
7 S14-15     6-8-2015    95.04
3 S16-17     6-13-2016   36.03;
                         95.04
4 S16-17     6-13-2016   TSO Table I
                         150.01—
8 S16-17     4-10-2017   150.03;
                         150.99
                         150.15—
9 S16-17     4-10-2017   150.17;
                         150.99
                         110.01—
1 S2018/2019 10-8-2018   110.06;
                         110.99
                         111.001—
                         111.010;
                         111.025—
2 S2018/2019 10-8-2018   111.039;
                         111.050—
                         111.069;
                         111.080—
                         111.095
4 S2018/2019 12-31-2018  31.39
                         112.01—
5 S2018/2019 3-11-2019   112.08;
                         112.99
6 S2018/2019 3-11-2019   91.07
9 S2018/2019 6-10-2019   95.40
22-01        12-12-2022  36.20—
                         36.35
22-02        12-12-2022  31.35
22-04        12-12-2022  31.39
23-01        3-13-2023   32.16
                        
 
