CITY OF WOODLAWN, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 Local legislation current through 23-04 passed 1-9-2024
 
 
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Woodlawn Code,” for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any Court of the state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect tilting and registration information on
vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(52))
   BIENNIUM. The two-year period commencing on July 1 in each even-numbered
year and ending on June 30 in the ensuing even-numbered year.
(KRS 446.010(41))
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog, or goat of any age
or sex.
(KRS 446.010(7))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Woodlawn, Kentucky, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   COUNTY. Campbell County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(11))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
or limited liability companies, means all those incorporated or formed by
authority of the state.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(16))
   FOREIGN. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
or limited liability companies, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(22))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(24))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Woodlawn, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   PARTNERSHIPS. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers, marshals,
police officers, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(29))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(34))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(40))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(44))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(47)) (Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4)) (Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order
of Court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act,
event, or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is
not to be included.
      (2)   The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of Court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of the City Commission in
enacting any ordinance that if any part of the ordinance be held
unconstitutional the remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the
ordinance provides otherwise, or unless the remaining parts are so essentially
and inseparably connected with and dependent upon the unconstitutional part
that it is apparent that the City Commission would not have enacted the
remaining parts without the unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining
parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the intent of the City Commission.
(KRS 446.090) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of the City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of the City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to
the effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
the City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of the City Commission as long
as the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of the City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code
by ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   Any chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances
may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent
ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such
subsequent ordinances until the City Commission shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1- 1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
      Statutory reference:
         Powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
37.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan.”
(KRS 83A.140(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.140(2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
(KRS 83A.030(2)) (Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.17   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.32   City Attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being
a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as
established by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification. Certification of the person administering the oath of
office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was
administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, and special districts who
handle public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and
sufficient bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest
performance of his or her duties and as security for all money coming into that
person’s hands or under that person’s control. The bond amount shall be based
upon the maximum amount of public funds the officer, official, or employee
handles at any given time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body
shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (C)(1) above.
(KRS 65.067) (Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a rate no greater
than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 5-1-02, passed 5-8-2002)
Editor’s note:
   Salaries of city officials shall be kept on file with the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
Commission exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance shall become
effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election
law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County
Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city
office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(4), (5)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.16 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   The Mayor of the city shall be elected by the voters of the city at
a regular election.
      (2)   A candidate for Mayor shall be a resident of the city for not less
than one year prior to his or her election. His or her term of office shall
begin on the first day of January following his or her election and shall be
for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
      (3)   If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If, for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   (a)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office
of Mayor shall occur unless a written or emailed resignation which specifies
the resignation date is tendered to the City Commission.
         (b)   The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or
special meeting of the city legislative body occurring after the date specified
in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs in the office of
Mayor which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the
City Commission shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and
the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   (a)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve
as Mayor Pro Tem.
         (b)   The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his or her office and he or she shall then
possess all rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant
by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4)) (Prior Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.17 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32 .
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer; and
      (2)   City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1)—(3)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (1)   The office of the City Clerk/Treasurer may, by ordinance, be
combined with any other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and
duties of the office.
      (2)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city;
         (b)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian”
or “custodian” in accordance with KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
         (c)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
         (d)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department
for Local Government a list containing current city information including, but
not limited to, the following:
            1.   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and
the following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
               a.   City Clerk/Treasurer;
               b.   City Attorney;
               c.   Police Chief;
               d.   Fire Chief; and
               e.   Public Works Director.
            2.   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall,
and telephone number of the city hall; and
            3.   The name and telephone number of either an elected or
appointed official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during
normal business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
(KRS 83A.085(3)(a)—(d))
         (e)   Keeping of the minutes of the city meetings;
         (f)   Preparation of the tax bills; and
         (g)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute, ordinance, or appropriate municipal order.
(KRS 83A.085(3)(e))
      (3)   The Department for Local Government shall immediately forward one
copy of the information received from each City Clerk/Treasurer to the
Legislative Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085(3)(d))
      (4)   The oath of office of the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be the oath
prescribed in § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
      (5)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02 .
(Prior Code, § 31.36)
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain the financial records of the city,
handle all monies received by the city, maintain the various bank accounts and
records, write all checks for payment of bills approved by the City Commission,
prepare the tax bills, and perform such other duties as are prescribed by the
Commission in an appropriate municipal order.
(Prior Code, § 31.37)
(Ord. 3-1-81, passed 4-1-1981)
§ 31.32 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of City Attorney.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the City Attorney shall be as provided by
statute, ordinance, or appropriate municipal order.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02 .
(Prior Code, § 31.38)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.35   Official city records
   
32.36   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.37   Publication requirements
   
32.38   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.39   Periodic review required
   
32.40   Municipal orders
   
32.41   Proved by City Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.42   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large by the voters of the
city at a regular election. A candidate for City Commission shall be a resident
of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
      (2)   Terms of office begin on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02 .
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within 30
days, fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with
the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the officials’s handwritten
signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
meeting of the city legislative body on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the City Commission occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Commission which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk/Treasurer and the Secretary of State of
the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
(KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall, by ordinance, establish all appointive offices
and the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to ensure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city’s resources.
(KRS 83A.140(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his or her employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall, at its first regular meeting in each year,
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.04)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4)) (Prior Code, § 32.20)
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see § 31.21
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held at the City Volunteer
Fire Department at 1110 Waterworks Road, Woodlawn, Kentucky, on the second
Wednesday of each month at 8:00 p.m.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the
City Commissioners.
      (2)   In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.3 1(A) and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140(7)) (Prior Code, § 32.21)
(Ord. 6-1-75, passed 6-4-1975; Ord. 8-1-00, passed 8-2-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings of Public Agencies, see KRS 61.800 et seq.
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Woodlawn.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days.
      (2)   The reading of an ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title
and reading a summary rather than the full text.
   (B)   (1)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance.
      (2)   Publication requirements of §
32.37  shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31 (A)(2) and
32.36, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33 (B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   (1)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated
by the legislative body.
      (2)   If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in summary,
the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice
law in the state and shall include the following:
         (a)   The title of the ordinance;
         (b)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance
in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
         (c)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another, and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders
shall be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders
may be amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance.
      (2)   All orders adopted shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 PROVED BY CITY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and § 43 of the
Kentucky Constitution
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7)) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted
and administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   No money shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary
fund, except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this
section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02 .
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money at
that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall after the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year cause
each fund of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a
certified public accountant. The audits shall be completed by February 1
immediately following the fiscal year to be audited. Within ten days of the
completion of the audit and its presentation to the city legislative body,
pursuant to division (C)(5) below, the city shall forward three copies of the
audit report to the State Department for Local Government for information
purposes. The Department shall forward one copy of the audit report to the
Legislative Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955
through 6.975. After the close of each even- numbered fiscal year, the city
shall prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS 424.220 and
immediately forward one copy to the State Department for Local Government. The
Department shall be responsible for forwarding one copy of the financial
statement to the Legislative Research Commission.
   (B)   (1)   If the city, for any fiscal year, receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $75,000, and has no long-term debt,
whether general obligation or revenue debt, it shall not be required to audit
each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year.
      (2)   The city shall annually prepare a financial statement in accordance
with KRS 424.220 and immediately forward one copy to the State Department for
Local Government for information purposes. The Department shall be responsible
for forwarding one copy of the financial statement to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (C)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 through 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with
the annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (D)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
is considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to the
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (E)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the Court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall designate as the city’s official
depositories one or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies,
or trust companies within the Commonwealth.
      (2)   The amount of funds on deposit in an official depository shall be
fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in accordance with 12
U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations, including surety
bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   (1)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which
the city is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in
a manner authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories.
      (2)   All city funds shall be disbursed by written authorization approved
by the Commission which states the name of the person to whom funds are
payable, the purpose of the payment, and the fund out of which the funds are
payable. Each authorization shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220) (Prior Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   (A)   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits
received basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization.
   (B)   The Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for
privately owned property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general
revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23 , the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23  and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city
shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property
owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25 , any affected property owner may file an action in the Circuit Court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26 , or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23  through
33.27  applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of the City of Woodlawn, Kentucky.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its new
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of the city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of the city shall
be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.26 .
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) (Prior Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail, or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   (1)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the
city, suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection.
      (2)   (a)   No person shall remove original copies of public records from
the offices of the city without the written permission of the official
custodian of the record.
         (b)   When public records are inspected at the city offices, the
person inspecting the records shall have the right to make abstracts and
memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all written public
records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require advance payment
of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or designee under his or her authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26  of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26 . When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1)—(3)) (Prior Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   (1)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making
copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff required.
      (2)   If a public agency is asked to produce a record in a
nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request of an
individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide the
requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   (a)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public
records are requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified
statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they
shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a contract with the
agency.
         (b)   The contract shall permit use of the public records for the
stated commercial purpose for a specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4)) (Prior Code, § 34.13)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23 ;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   (1)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose.
      (2)   A newspaper, periodical, or radio or television station shall not
be held to have used or knowingly allowed the use of the public record for a
commercial purpose merely because of its publication or broadcast, unless it
has also given its express permission for that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23 .
(KRS 61.874(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.15)
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which, if openly disclosed, would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Anti-terrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(9) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage, and gas systems;
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(9): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(9) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(9), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(9)(a)5. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(9), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Office for Security
Coordination and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(9) shall not
apply when a member of the State General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(9) under the Open Records Law.
      (10)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (11)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (12)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (13)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation; and
      (14)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the city shall separate the excepted and make the nonexcepted
material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878) (Prior Code, § 34.16)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 34.17)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
Cross-reference:
Notice of improvements to real property required, see §
150.01
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the county assessment for all real and personal property situated within
the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved by the
City Commission.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.02 DUE DATE.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due on
November 1.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 10-5-85, passed 10-2-1985)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   If payment of any taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, is
delinquent more than 30 days from the date due, a penalty of 10% interest shall
be added to the total amount of tax due; and all delinquent taxes, in addition
to the penalty, shall carry 6% interest per annum until paid.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 10-5-85, passed 10-2-1985)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
(Prior Code, § 35.04)
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   Revenue produced by this chapter shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city and used and expended for all purposes authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 10-5-85, passed 10-2-1985)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Title
   
36.002   Findings
   
36.003   Purpose and authority
   
36.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
36.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.017   Receipt of gifts
   
36.018   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
36.019   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.021   Post-employment restriction
   
36.022   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
36.035   Who must file
   
36.036   When to file statements; amended statements
   
36.037   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
36.038   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
36.039   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
36.040   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
36.055   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
36.070   Interlocal cooperation agreement
   
36.071   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
36.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Woodlawn Code
of Ethics.”
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.002 FINDINGS.
   The City Commission finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of the city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of the city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The Northern Kentucky Enforcement Committee as created by
the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority and vested by this chapter with
the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city’s code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Woodlawn, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full time or part time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an un-emancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   The City Manager;
      (5)   The City Administrator;
      (6)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; and/or
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; and/or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 36.10) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §  
36.999
§ 36.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any
contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or
she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee,
is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office,
or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in this division (A) shall
apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be grounds for removal from office
or employment with the city in accordance with any applicable provisions of
state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 36.11) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence, the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Prior Code, § 36.12) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 36.13) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.019 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Prior Code, § 36.14) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course or his or her
official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the State Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 through 61.884,
at the time of its use or disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 36.15) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.021 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Prior Code, § 36.16) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.022 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech, or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s
service with the city.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of
the city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on
behalf of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article.
      (2)   Provided, that the officer or employee can show by clear and
convincing evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of
the city or city agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city
agency and not primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any
other person.
(Prior Code, § 36.17) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.036 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 5:00 p.m. October 31, 2008. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 5:00 p.m. on April 30 each year, provided
that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; or
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the filing deadline for elected city office for
which that person became a candidate.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 36.21) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.037 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than March 1 of each year. The
failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a
copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 36.22) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests.
      (2)   The statements of financial interests shall be maintained by the
Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents available for public inspection
immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 36.23) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.039 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current employer/business name and address, employer/work
telephone number, and home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (such as salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the city, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filers immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer, or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 36.24) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
§ 36.040 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Prior Code, § 36.25) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
NEPOTISM
§ 36.055 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause any of the following when a family member is placed at or
to an office or position of employment with the city or a city agency:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
September 1, 2008.
(Prior Code, § 36.30) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.070 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference is an interlocal
cooperation agreement authorized by KRS 65.210 et seq., which the Mayor of the
city is hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Northern
Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority and the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics
Enforcement Committee according to the provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 36.40) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.071 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 36.41) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
   (D)   Any violation of §
36.016  shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the Court
may void any contract entered into in violation of §
36.016 .
   (E)   (1)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information, as stated in §
36.040 , shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails
or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
§
36.040 (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of
a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
(Prior Code, § 36.99) (Ord. 10-1-08, passed 10-8-2008)
CHAPTER 37: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
37.01   Permission to carry concealed weapons
Fire Department
   
37.15   Acceptance of Volunteer Fire Department and Chief
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 37.01 PERMISSION TO CARRY CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   All duly elected and appointed law officers of the city, including
those providing services to the city through any interlocal agreement, may
carry small arms or other concealed weapons on or about their persons at all
times within the commonwealth.
   (B)   This section is herewith enacted for the express purpose of protecting
the police officers of the city from prosecution under the provisions of KRS
527.020(1) when they may be outside the corporate limits of the city and for no
other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 5-1-71, passed 7- -1971)
Cross-reference:
   Discharge of firearms prohibited, see §
130.01
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 37.15 ACCEPTANCE OF VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT AND CHIEF.
   (A)   The city hereby accepts the Volunteer Fire Department as the duly
constituted and official firefighting organization for the city.
   (B)   The city accepts the duly elected or appointed Chief of the Volunteer
Fire Department as the head of the Volunteer Fire Department with respect to
its operations in the city.
(Prior Code, § 37.10) (Ord. 10-1-73, passed 10-1-1973)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Container and placement specifications
   
50.02   Waste collection fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Interlocal agreement for solid waste authority, see
T.S.O. Table II
§ 50.01 CONTAINER AND PLACEMENT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Each and every resident in the city shall, before placing any garbage
or trash for pick-up by the city’s contract collector, have all of said garbage
or trash placed in plastic or metal containers with secure fitting lids.
   (B)   All garbage and trash containers shall be placed to the rear or side
of the property owner’s home at all times other than the span of time beginning
at 4:00 p.m. the evening before scheduled pickup through 8:00 p.m. the day of
scheduled pick-up.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 1-1-79, passed 1-3-1979; Ord. 2011-4-01, passed 3-
18-2011; Ord. 19-02, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 WASTE COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   The annual waste collection fees for all single-family residences and
improved multi-family units, and each business shall be set by contract.
   (B)   The waste collection fees shall continue to be payable before December
1 of each year with unpaid waste collection charges delinquent more than a
month subject to a 10% penalty. Interest on the unpaid charges shall be 8% per
annum.
   (C)   All waste collection receipts shall be used to provide for waste
collection services for the citizens of the city and all excess monies, if any,
will be put in the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 10-1-95, passed 10-4-1995)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that any such person, business, or entity violates
§
50.01, then he, she, or it shall be subject to a fine of $20 per day up to a
maximum of $100 per week for such violation.
      (2)   Any subsequent violation in a succeeding week shall subject the
violator to the same penalty. At the option of the city, the city may cause
such a container to be removed and assess the cost of removal against the
violator.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
   (B)   Any person or business failing to pay the waste collection charge as
provided in §
50.02, and being 80 days delinquent, shall be guilty of a violation and shall
be subject to a criminal fine not to exceed $100.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 10-1-95, passed 10-4-1995)
CHAPTER 51: NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES
Section
   
51.01   Purpose; intent
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Applicability
   
51.04   Responsibility for administration
   
51.05   Ultimate responsibility
   
51.06   Discharge prohibitions
   
51.07   Suspension of MS4 Access
   
51.08   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
51.09   Monitoring of discharges
   
51.10   Requirements to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of Best Management Practices
   
51.11   Watercourse protection
   
51.12   Notification of spills
   
51.13   Enforcement
   
51.14   Appeal of notice of violation
   
51.15   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
51.16   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
51.17   Injunctive relief
   
51.18   Alternative compensatory actions
   
51.19   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
51.20   Criminal prosecution
   
51.21   Remedies not exclusive
§ 51.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The
objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the director of the
municipal agency designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge, or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
five acres or more. Beginning in March 2003, NPDES Stormwater Phase II permits
will be required for construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one
acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
51.09.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following: Any drain or conveyance,
whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to
enter the storm drain system including, but not limited to, any conveyances
which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater,
and wash water to enter the storm drain system and any connections to the storm
drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or
connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized
enforcement agency, or any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or
industrial land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in
plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement
agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform, and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the Best
Management Practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement
agency may be delegated in writing by the Director of the authorized
enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of
or in the employ of the agency.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.05 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.06 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including, but not
limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
stormwater.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety; and
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
      (3)   (a)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater
discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency.
         (b)   Provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.07 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.
      (1)   The city may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to
a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or Waters of
the United States.
      (2)   If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in
an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or Waters of the United
States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge.
      (2)   The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access.
      (3)   The violator may petition the authorized enforcement agency for a
reconsideration and hearing.
   (C)   Prior approval. A person commits an offense if the person reinstates
MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section without the prior
approval of the authorized enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.08 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
   (B)   Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.09 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities. The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency. Facility operators shall allow the city ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination, and copying
of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s stormwater
discharge.
      (2)   The city has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (3)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      (4)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
   (C)   Search warrant. If the city has been refused access to any part of the
premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he and she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.10 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city will adopt requirements identifying Best Management Practices for
any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or Waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm
drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-
structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premises,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.11 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the
property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles that
would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water through
the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing
privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such
structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity
of the watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.12 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or Waters of the United
States said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the city within three business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Prior Code, § 51.13) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency
may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
      (2)   Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   The violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   Abatement. If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected
property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Prior Code, § 51.14) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.14 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of the authorized enforcement agency.
   (B)   The notice of appeal must be received within days from the date of the
notice of violation.
   (C)   Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or his or her
designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice
of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or its designee shall be
final.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.15 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days
of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of
the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs.
      (2)   The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the
amount of the assessment within 15 days.
      (3)   If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined
by the decision of the municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in
which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against
the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 12% per annum
shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the 31st day following discovery
of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.17 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail
to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary
or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities which would
create further violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or
remediation of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18 ALTERNATIVE COMPENSATORY ACTIONS.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.19 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.20 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter
shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and
shall be subject to a criminal penalty of $500 per violation per day and/or
imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed 365 days.
   (B)   The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorney’s fees,
court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter,
including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 51.21 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. 12-01-05, passed 12-14-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Police Department, vehicles
of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official business, and ambulances
on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, the
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of the city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to
alleviate unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city
official shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks.
   (B)   If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than
two weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the
extended order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-Way” sign shall bear
the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary intersecting or
merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary intersecting or merging
right-of-way.
      (2)   No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way” sign shall enter the
merging or intersecting right- of-way at a speed in excess of 15 mph, except
that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights.
      (1)   When lane lights are installed over any street for the purpose of
controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic shall move only
in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear.
      (2)   (a)   However, when flashing amber lights appear above a lane all
left turns shall be made from that lane.
         (b)   Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not
move against them.
         (c)   If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city.
   (B)   All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform, and as far as
possible shall be placed uniformly.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey
the signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   However, the type and the right to or necessity for such barrier or
sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Parking of semi-tractor-trailer trucks; entering city at night, see §
72.13
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   (1)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.
      (2)   Should the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked
when there is insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to
accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal
notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this division (C)
rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the
vehicle at any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.
   (B)   A vehicle from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in
such manner as to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful
direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the Fire
Department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see Ch. 92
PARADES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or such officer.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof.
   (B)   If the City Commission or authorized city official disapproves the
application, it shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays,
Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was
filed, a notice of its action stating the reasons for denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.55 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a
parade permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days
after notice of denial.
   (B)   The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days after its
receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Chief and the Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade route, see §
72.07
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the County Jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Parking of semi-tractor-trailer trucks; entering city at night
Snow Emergency
   
72.25   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.26   Termination of emergency
   
72.27   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (C)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 10-1-02, passed 10-9-2002) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway or immediately next to any
driveway curb cut;
      (5)   Within 12 feet of an intersection or within a crosswalk;
      (6)   (a)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or
parking; and
         (b)   This does not apply to police officers when operating properly
identified vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device;
      (8)   On any controlled access highway;
      (9)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (10)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; and
      (11)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area as listed in division (A) above.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) (Prior Code, § 72.03) (Res. 2-1-95, passed - -1995)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the Volunteer Fire Department may paint the face and top of a curb or curbs at
or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all times a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Res. 2-1-95, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall
provide suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting
parking on that particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any
street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle
on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or
longer.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.50 through
71.61
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of state law.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99 
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING OF SEMI-TRACTOR-TRAILER TRUCKS; ENTERING CITY AT NIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall park on the highways, streets, alleys, or any right-
of-way or property of the city between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. any
of the following: any commercial vehicle as defined in KRS 186.010(11); any
other vehicle originally designed and built, or altered, with a dual wheel axle
or with tandem axle; any motor vehicle or mobile unit that exceeds 80 inches in
height or exceeds 96 inches in overall width or both; any trailer of any kind,
whether hooked to any other vehicle or parked independently; any road rollers,
road graders, farm tractors or equipment, vehicles on which power shovels are
mounted, such as other construction equipment customarily used only on the site
of construction and which is not practical for the transportation of any
persons upon the highway; any vehicle exceeding three-fourths-ton capacity; or
any devices moved by human or animal power.
   (B)   There is excepted from the provision of this section: any public works
service vehicle; any police, fire, or other emergency vehicle; any vehicle
being used for an emergency vehicle; any vehicle being used for emergency
service or restoration of utilities, such as water, gas, electric, and phone
systems; any vehicle which bears a temporary permit, free of charge, issued by
the Mayor or his or her designee; any vehicle making deliveries to or from a
location within the city during the restricted time; or any vehicle factory-
designed and built as a “compact, dual-wheel pick-up truck” unaltered from its
original construction and not exceeding 80 inches in height or 96 inches in
overall width or both.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 5-1-74, passed 5-6-1974; Ord. 7-2-02, passed 7-3-
2002) Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.25 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official
finds that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which
makes it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes
be prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, the Commission
or city official is authorized to announce such prohibition to become effective
at a time specified by it.
      (2)   After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park
any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route.
   (B)   However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City Commission or any authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall.
   (C)   The prohibition of parking announced by the City Commission or any
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until the Commission or city official announces the termination of the
snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:
00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.27 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the City
Commission or any authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.22)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (Prior Code, § 72.99)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets shall be restricted to vehicular traffic moving in the
directions indicated. Appropriate directional signals shall be posted.
 
Street        Direction                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Burnet Avenue Easterly (in the direction of West Crescent 11-1-79  11-7-1979
              Avenue from Baum Street)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule I) Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The maximum speed limit for motor vehicles operated on the six
streets of the city shall be 20 mph.
      (2)   The six streets covered by this schedule are Baum Avenue, Burnet
Avenue, East Crescent Avenue, West Crescent Avenue, Forest Lane, and Woodlawn
Terrace.
(Prior Code, § 71.05)
   (B)   Any person who violates this schedule shall be subject to a fine in
accordance with the schedule of fines established under KRS 189.394.
(Prior Code, § 71.99)
(Ord. 10-1-76, passed 10-6-1976) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking areas
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
   The following streets are hereby designated no parking areas in the
locations indicated.
Street Side Ord./Res. No. Date Passed
Street                Side  Ord./Res. No. Date Passed
Baum Street           West  Res. 2-1-95   - -1995
Burnet Avenue         North Res. 2-1-95   - -1995
East Crescent Avenue  East  Res. 2-1-95   - -1995
Forest Lane           North Res. 2-1-95   - -1995
Ohio Avenue connector Both  Res. 2-1-95   - -1995
West Crescent Avenue  West  Res. 2-1-95   - -1995
Woodlawn Terrace      East  Res. 2-1-95   - -1995
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 75, Schedule I) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
      
96.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Torturing of animals
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Determination of owner
   
90.22   Running at large
   
90.23   Vicious dogs
   
90.24   Keeping of dogs causing noise disturbance
   
90.25   Rabid or mad dogs
   
90.26   Permission to kill dogs attacking human beings
Impoundment Procedures
   
90.40   Duty to impound animals in violation
   
90.41   Notice of impoundment
   
90.42   Registry of impounded animal
   
90.43   Redemption of impounded animal
   
90.44   Fees
   
90.45   Vaccination requirement
   
90.46   Failure to redeem; adoption by another person
   
90.47   Disposition of funds
Dangerous Animals
   
90.60   Definition
   
90.61   Owner responsibility
   
90.62   Complaint
   
90.63   Removal of animal
   
90.64   Civil liability not limited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by the
owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   (a)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by
poisoning.
         (b)   This division (A) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a
dog or cat. Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation
of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse show, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training,
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl, or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100) (Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 TORTURING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
TORTURE means the intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or injury, motivated by an intent to increase or prolong the pain of the
animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally torture a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (D)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (E)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) (Prior Code, § 90.07) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats, second and subsequent offenses, a Class D felony,
see KRS 525.135
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
90.20 through
90.26 and
90.40 through
90.47 of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, three months of age or over.
   OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, includes every person
having a right of property in the dog and every person who keeps or harbors the
dog, or has it in his or her care or permits it to remain on or about premises
owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.21 DETERMINATION OF OWNER.
   Any person who allows a dog habitually to remain or to be lodged and fed
within or upon his or her premises shall be deemed the owner for the purposes
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.22 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog, licensed or
unlicensed, to permit any such dog to leave or be beyond the premises upon
which the dog is kept, except when accompanied and controlled by the owner or
keeper or by some responsible person acting for or on behalf of the owner or
keeper.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of said dog shall be required to secure the dog by
means of a collar or harness with a chain or leash attached and held by the
owner, keeper, or person acting on his or her behalf and no dog shall be
permitted upon the premises of another person.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of a vicious dog to
permit the dog to go or be taken off the premises of the owner or keeper, or to
be loose upon the premises of the owner or keeper or elsewhere at any time.
   (B)   The dog shall be kept at all times either confined within an enclosure
from which it cannot escape, or firmly secured by means of a collar and chain
or other similar device. If a dog attacks or injures or attempts to injure any
person, such conduct is prima facie evidence that the dog is vicious.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 KEEPING OF DOGS CAUSING NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall harbor or keep a dog which by loud or frequent or habitual
barking, howling, or yelping, causes annoyance or disturbance to another person
(s) living or having the right to be in the vicinity so as to hear said
barking, howling, or yelping.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 RABID OR MAD DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   On the complaint of any person that a dog is rabid or mad or has
been bitten by another rabid or mad animal, the District Judge shall hear proof
in order to determine whether or not there is reason to believe that the dog is
rabid or mad, and the Judge, in his or her discretion, may either have the dog
impounded for observation or order the dog killed; however, if the owner or
keeper of the dog makes requests in writing to the District Judge that the dog
be held by some reliable veterinarian for a proper period of observation and
agrees in writing to pay the charges therefor, the dog may, at the discretion
of the Court, be delivered to the veterinarian who shall be approved by the
Court for observation.
      (2)   The veterinarian shall make a report of his or her findings to the
District Judge and the Judge may then declare whether or not the dog is rabid
or mad.
      (3)   Any dog adjudged to be rabid or mad by the District Judge shall
immediately be destroyed by the S.P.C.A. or the police in a humane manner.
   (B)   No person shall conceal a dog, believing that same is rabid or mad, or
has been bitten by other rabid or mad animals or to conceal a dog ordered
impounded or killed, or in any manner prevent or attempt to prevent the
executions of the orders of the Court concerning rabid or mad dogs or dogs
bitten by other rabid or mad animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 PERMISSION TO KILL DOGS ATTACKING HUMAN BEINGS.
   Any person may kill a dog which he or she sees attack a human being,
regardless of whether or not the dog is licensed.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES
§ 90.40 DUTY TO IMPOUND ANIMALS IN VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department or dog warden to seize and
impound, subject to the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.26 and
90.40 through
90.47 all animals found in violation of the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.26 and
90.40 through
90.47 whether such animal shall be in the immediate possession or custody of
its owner or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 90.35) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.41 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner, harborer, or keeper of any animal impounded under the provisions
of this subchapter, if known, shall be notified of such impoundment by the best
means applicable.
(Prior Code, § 90.36) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.42 REGISTRY OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   The poundmaster, upon impounding or receiving any animal under the
provisions of this subchapter, shall make a complete registry of such animal,
entering the breed, color, and sex of the animal and whether the animal has
been vaccinated and the time and place of taking such animal into custody.
(Prior Code, § 90.37) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.43 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   The owner of any animal which has been impounded under the provisions
of this subchapter shall have the right to redeem the same upon the payment of
any and all fees which may be due and payable for the impoundment of such
animal; provided, however, the payment of such impounding fees shall not bar
the imposition of any fine which may be imposed for the violation of §§
90.20 through
90.26 and
90.40 through
90.47.
   (B)   All impounded animals shall be redeemed within five days after the
same was impounded. Any such animal not redeemed within such time may be sold,
destroyed, or otherwise disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 90.38) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.44 FEES.
   (A)   The following fees shall be charged for the impoundment of any animal
under the provision of this subchapter:
      (1)   First redemption within calendar year: $25;
      (2)   Second redemption within calendar year: $50; and
      (3)   Third redemption within calendar year: $75.
   (B)   Whenever any animal is impounded, an additional fee of $5 shall be
charged for each day, or fraction thereof, of impoundment for feeding and
caring for such animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.39) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.45 VACCINATION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The owner of any impounded domesticated animal which has not been
vaccinated, upon satisfactory proof of ownership, may redeem his or her animal
by making a deposit of $25 with the poundmaster and shall be allowed 24 hours
to get animal vaccinated.
   (B)   If such owner fails to procure a vaccination certificate within said
24 hours, the deposit shall be forfeited and the animal shall be impounded
again.
   (C)   Upon presentation within such period of time of a certificate of
vaccination, the deposit shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 90.40) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.46 FAILURE TO REDEEM; ADOPTION BY ANOTHER PERSON.
   If the owner of any animal impounded under this subchapter should fail to
redeem his or her animal within the time allowed for redemption, any other
person may, upon complying with all provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.26 and
90.40 through
90.47, redeem the animal from the pound and be the lawful owner of the animal
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 90.41) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 90.47 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies received and collected under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 90.42) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
other domestic animals by virtue of a known or displayed propensity to endanger
by pursuing, wounding, or attacking any other domestic animal or human being,
whether or not such dangerous animal bears any license tag required by state
law.
      (2)   Any animal shall not be deemed dangerous if:
            (a)   It bites, attacks, or menaces anyone assaulting its owner, or
any person or other animal who has tormented or abused it;
            (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of an attack from a person
or other animal upon the owner or other person; or
            (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or other domestic
animal.
      (3)   Any animal trained, owned, or harbored for the purpose, primarily
or in part, of animal fighting.
      (4)   Any animal which has been trained to attack persons independently
or upon oral command, excepting animals owned by public law enforcement
agencies.
      (5)   Any dog which is registered with the American Kennel Club as either
an American Stafford Shire Terrier or Stafford Shire Bull Terrier, is
registered with the United Kennel Club as an American Pit Bull Terrier,
conforms to either of the attached Standards of the American Kennel Club for
the American Stafford Shire Terrier or Stafford Bull Terrier which were
published, with example photograph, in the fifteenth edition of the Complete
Dog Book in 1977, or has predominate physical characteristics which are those
of either the American Stafford Shire Terrier or the American Stafford Shire
Bull Terrier indicated in the attached standards of the American Kennel Club
which were published with an example photograph in the fifteenth edition of the
Complete Dog Book in 1977.
(Prior Code, § 90.55) (Ord. 4-1-09, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 90.61 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Responsibility of all animal owners. It shall be the duty of every
owner of any animal, or anyone having an animal in his or her possession or
custody, to exercise reasonable care and to take all necessary steps and
precautions to protect other people, property, and animals from injuries or
damages which might result from their animals behavior, regardless of whether
such behavior is motivated by mischievousness, playfulness, or ferocity.
   (B)   Parent or guardian liability. In the event the owner or keeper of any
animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be responsible to
ensure that all provisions of this subchapter are complied with.
   (C)   Duty to keep animal under restraint while on owner, possessor, or
custodian’s property. It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal, or
anyone having any animal in his or her possession or custody, to ensure that
the animal is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and precautions are
taken to prevent the animal from leaving, which unattended the real property
limits of its owner, possessor, or custodian, and that it is securely and
humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen, or other enclosure out
of which it cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape on its own volition.
Such enclosure must be securely locked at any time the animal is left
unattended, or it must be securely and humanely restrained by chain, cable, and
trolley, or other tether of sufficient strength to prevent escape, or it must
be on a leash under the control of a competent person.
   (D)   Additional requirements for precautions that must be taken by owners
of dangerous animals. Whenever outside of its enclosure as provided herein, but
is on the owner’s property, a dangerous animal must be attended by the owner
and restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent
its escape. No dangerous animal shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise tied
to any inanimate object, such as a tree, post, or building outside of its own
enclosure as provided herein. The owners of dangerous animals who maintain
their animal out of doors, a portion of their property must be fenced with a
perimeter or area fence. Within this perimeter fence, the dangerous animal must
be humanely confined inside a pen or kennel of adequate size. The pen or kennel
may not share common fencing with the area or perimeter fence. The kennel or
fence must have secure sides, a secure top attached to all sides, the sides
must either be buried two feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad, or
securely attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the kennel must be locked.
   (E)   Duty to keep animal under restraint while off property. It shall be
the duty of the owner of any animal or anyone having an animal in his or her
possession to keep the animal under restraint and in control at all times while
the animal is off the real property limits of the owner, possessor, or
custodian. For purposes of this section, the animal is deemed under control
when:
      (1)   It is securely confined within a vehicle parked or in motion;
      (2)   It is properly confined within a secure enclosure with the
permission of the owner of the property where the enclosure is located; or
      (3)   It is securely restrained by a leash or other device held by a
competent person.
   (F)   Additional requirements that must be taken by owners of dangerous
animals. Except when being transported in, and securely confined within a
vehicle, no dangerous animal shall be permitted off the property of his or her
owner except when it is:
      (1)   Attended by its owner;
      (2)   Is restrained by a secure collar and leash (not to exceed six feet
in length), both collar and leash to be of sufficient strength to prevent
escape; and
      (3)   Muzzled by sufficient means to prevent its biting other persons or
domestic animals.
   (G)   Enforcement of restrictions on dangerous animals. In the event that
any law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that a dangerous
animal is being harbored in violation of this subchapter he or she may:
      (1)   Order the violation immediately corrected and cite the owner or
keeper to appear in Court for the violation; or
      (2)   (a)   If the violation cannot be immediately corrected and the
animal is posing an imminent serious threat to human beings or other domestic
animals, the animal may be seized and impounded, in which case the owner or
keeper will be cited to appear in Court for the violation. At the owner’s
request and expense, such impoundment may be at a veterinarian or licensed
kennel of the owner’s choosing. If the Court rules that the animal is not
dangerous as defined, it will be released to the owner. If the Court rules that
it is dangerous as defined the animal will be released to the owner after
payment of any fees and penalties, and upon presentation of proof that the
animal will now be kept restrained or confined as specified in this subchapter.
         (b)   If the owner or keeper of any alleged dangerous animal impounded
for violation of this subchapter presents proof that the animal will not be
kept in compliance with this subchapter, the animal will be released upon
payment of any fees and penalties due.
         (c)   If the owner or keeper of an alleged dangerous animal fails to
either provide proof that the animal will not be kept restrained or confined in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, or fails to reclaim it after
impoundment, and if it cannot be adopted by someone providing proof that it
will be kept restrained or confined as specified in the subchapter, it will be
humanely euthanized.
   (H)   Warning signs. All owners, keepers, or harborers of any guard dog or
dangerous animal shall display in a prominent place on their premises, and at
each entrance or exit to the area where such animal is confined, a sign easily
readable by the public using the words “Beware of Dangerous Animal” or “Beware
of Dog.”
(Prior Code, § 90.56) (Ord. 4-1-09, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 90.62 COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Any person who has been pursued or attacked by an allegedly dangerous
animal, or anyone on behalf of such person, may make a complaint before the
Dangerous Animal Officer or District Court, charging the owner, possessor, or
custodian of such animal with harboring a dangerous animal. A copy of such
complaint shall be served upon the person so charged in the same matter and
subject to the laws regulating the service of summons in civil cases, or by any
law enforcement officer of the city with a return receipt, directing such
person to appear before the District Court for a hearing of such complaint at a
time fixed.
   (B)   If upon a hearing of the parties and their witnesses, the Court finds
the person so charged is the owner, possessor, or guardian of the animal in
question, and that such animal has without cause pursued, wounded, or attacked
a human being or other domestic animal, the Court shall declare such animal a
dangerous animal and order the owner, possessor, or guardian to henceforth keep
such dangerous animal and order the owner, possessor, or guardian the
henceforth keep such dangerous animal securely confined as set forth herein,
and impose the penalties set forth in §
90.99(F).
(Prior Code, § 90.57) (Ord. 4-1-09, passed 4-8-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.63 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL.
   If a subsequent complaint is filed against the same owner, possessor, or
guardian for an animal previously determined or found to be a dangerous animal,
and the Court finds the person so charged is in violation hereof, the Court
shall order the owner, possessor, or guardian of the dangerous animal to
immediately remove the animal from the city or order the animal humanely
euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 90.58) (Ord. 4-1-09, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 90.64 CIVIL LIABILITY NOT LIMITED.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit or prohibit
application of any other public law or governmental regulation. Further,
nothing in this subchapter shall in any manner limit the civil liability of any
owner, possessor, or guardian of any animal to any aggrieved person for
damages.
(Prior Code, § 90.59) (Ord. 4-1-09, passed 4-8-2009)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
90.03 and
90.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130, 525.135)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (D)   Any owner found violating any provision of §§
90.20 through
90.26 and
90.40 through
90.47 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not less than $25 nor more than $500, and/or incarceration
for not more than 30 days in jail for such offense. Each violation of any of
the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.26 and
90.40 through
90.47 shall be considered a separate offense.
   (E)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating §
90.61(A), (B), (C), or (E) (unless the violation involves a dangerous animal
for which violation penalties are provided for in division (E)(2 below) shall
be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor as defined by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
Each violation shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating §
90.61(D), (F), or (G) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor as defined by
the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Each violation shall be a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person found guilty of violating §
90.61(H) shall be guilty of a violation as defined by the Kentucky Revised
Statutes. Each violation shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 5-2-85, passed 5-1-1985; Ord. 4-1-09, passed 4-8-
2009)
Statutory reference:
   Fines for misdemeanors and violations, see KRS 534.040 et seq.
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
   
91.07   Street excavation/resurfacing
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements
   
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.44   Drainage of surface waters onto street or sidewalk prohibited
   
91.45   Allowing debris to fall or wash onto right-of-way prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Construction of private driveways, see §
150.03
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the City Commission, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited.
      (2)   Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate city
fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as the difference
between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration services
performed by it.
      (3)   If the amount of such services performed by the city should exceed
the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk/Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor for a period not exceeding
one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and
sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 91.07 STREET EXCAVATION/RESURFACING.
   (A)   It is hereby prohibited for any company, organization, contractor, or
other person or entity to undertake any street repair work on the streets of
the city consisting of resurfacing, scraping, paving, digging, or excavating or
other similar type of work without the prior written consent of the City
Building Inspector.
   (B)   Prior to obtaining consent, the person or entity must apply for a
permit to do the work and as part of the application, must submit detailed
specifications of the exact areas of work including depth of excavation,
building materials, and the like.
   (C)   The City Building Inspector must approve all work and issue
appropriate permit before any construction begins, and the construction shall
be completed within the time authorized by the permit and according to the
details of the specifications provided to the Building Inspector.
   (D)   Under no circumstances shall any work be done involving any removal or
significant repair to a street surface which has been substantially resurfaced
within a period of two years after such substantial resurfacing.
   (E)   As an exception to divisions (A) through (D) above, a person or entity
may undertake emergency repairs only without advance approval of the City
Building Inspector, but in those instances, must contact the City Building
Inspector as soon as practical after the work is undertaken regarding the
nature and extent of the repair work undertaken.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 9-1-02, passed 9-11-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax
revenues on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing
for the purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and
bridge matters within the city.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than seven days nor more
than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public hearing and before
beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done which has
not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter
related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing
for each project.
   (B)   A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100(6), (7)) (Prior Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot
of land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 DRAINAGE OF SURFACE WATERS ONTO STREET OR SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No property owner or occupant shall divert the natural drainage of
surface waters by pipe, culvert, ditch, or other method from his or her
property onto the street or sidewalk so as to create a slippery or otherwise
unsafe condition for vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Any and all persons who shall violate division (A) above shall fined
as provided in §
91.99. The imposition of one penalty for any violation of division (A) above
shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. Each 30-day period that such a prohibited condition is maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.34) (Ord. 3-69, passed 3-3-1969) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.45 ALLOWING DEBRIS TO FALL OR WASH ONTO RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person in possession, actual or constructive, of any real property
in the city shall allow debris or other substances (natural or foreign),
including dirt, rocks, gravel, or other materials to fall or wash from his or
her property onto any city right-of-way, including sidewalks and streets, and
so create an unsightly or hazardous condition in the city.
   (B)   Heavy rains or other natural causes shall not be a defense since
preventative measures should be taken in advance to prevent the situation from
occurring.
   (C)   No citation or arrest is to be made for violation of this section
until a period of three days after the condition in violation begins to exist.
Each day following the day of citation or arrest that the situation in
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.35) (Ord. 11-1-74, passed 11-4-1974) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person or entity in violation of §
91.07 shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 and/or incarceration of up to 30
days in jail.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 9-1-02, passed 9-11-2002)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
92.02   Abatement procedure; lien
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
§ 92.01 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place, park, store, or abandon, nor shall any property
owner or occupant permit the placing, parking, storing, or abandoning of any
inoperative motor vehicle or machinery or parts thereof, any trash, refuse,
junk, garbage, or debris from demolished structures on private or public
property within the city for a period in excess of 14 days.
   (B)   No person shall permit any weeds to grow uncut on his or her property
in the city to a height in excess of one foot.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 5-1-82, passed 5-5-1982) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies herein, the Mayor, in the event that
any of the provisions of this chapter have been violated by any property owner,
may notify or attempt to notify the violating property owner at his or her last
known address of the violation and direct the owner to correct the violation
within 30 days.
   (B)   If the time expires and the violation is not corrected, the Mayor may
cause the violation to be corrected, and the city shall have a lien against the
subject property for the cost of such correction of violations.
   (C)   The property shall be subject to foreclosure to collect the debt
evidenced by the lien in the same manner as a lien for unpaid property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 5-1-82, passed 5-5-1982)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons who shall violate the provisions of this chapter or
fail to comply with any order made hereunder shall be guilty of a violation and
shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance be fined in
the sum of not more than $250 (for a violation) or $500 (for a misdemeanor).
The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations within a reasonable time. Each
14-day period that such a prohibited condition is maintained shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 5-1-82, passed 5-5-1982)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Common fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
Smoke Detectors
   
93.35   Definitions
   
93.36   Smoke detectors required
   
93.37   Type and placement of smoke detectors
   
93.38   Providing, installing, and maintaining smoke detectors
   
93.39   Supplemental standards
   
93.40   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, FIREWORKS means any
composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible
effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the
definition of “consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or
“display” fireworks as defined in division (D) below and as set forth in the
U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2. Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, COMMON FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
division 1.4 explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation, and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams of the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel contains more than 200
grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE, or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells). Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, bust charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report;
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   (1)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation.
      (2)   This term includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers containing
more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells
containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display
pieces which exceed the limits for classification as consumer fireworks.
Display fireworks are defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Parts 1500 and 1507, and are classified as class B explosives
by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items shall be as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) above are not
legal for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this
chapter for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may
be sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715) (Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of
the official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) above shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site at all times the display is
in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal or local
Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire Protection
Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall
have been granted, sales, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for
the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
division (A)(5) shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC
DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division (A).
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing, or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) (Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 COMMON FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   The consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for
sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements
of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal’s office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715(7) through (9)) (Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which
may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the
permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her
agents, employees, or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five-hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall
provide the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of
any fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   (a)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not
known to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be
published, in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the
seizure was made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s
intention to dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each
week for three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the
fireworks within ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire
Marshal may proceed with disposal of the fireworks.
         (b)   If the owner does claim the fireworks within ten days of the
date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in division (A) above shall
be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 through 227.750 shall restrict a local
government from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks
within its jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) (Prior Code, § 93.06)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official.
   (B)   The City Commission or other authorized city official, before granting
such permit may require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city
and all other persons against injury or damages which might result from the
proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.22) Penalty, see §
93.99
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 93.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, rooms, or area designated or used for sleeping purposes either as
a primary use or use on casual occasions. DWELLING shall include a rooming
house, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories, apartment buildings, and
condominiums, but not to the exclusion of other dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any group of rooms, located within a building and forming a
single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designed to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
   OWNER. Any person or legal entity who alone, jointly, or severally with
others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall
have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit
and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in
possession; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate,
or duly authorized agent of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the owner’
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
ROOMING UNIT may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a motel, a tourist
home, a school dormitory, or an apartment building which may, or may not, have
some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
(Prior Code, § 93.35) (Ord. 5-1-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 93.36 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to such exceptions and conditions for compliance as
stated herein, six months after the effective date of this subchapter, smoke
detectors shall be required in all dwellings privately owned or rented for
occupancy.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each new and/or
existing occupied dwelling unit to install smoke detectors in each dwelling
unit as hereinafter provided. Said smoke detectors shall be capable of sensing
visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a suitable audible
(or visual for the deaf or hearing impaired) alarm.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to any and all dwellings or dwelling
units, new or existing, which do not fall under the jurisdiction of the
currently adopted State Building Code and/or the currently adopted Life Safety
Code (LSC 101).
(Prior Code, § 93.36) (Ord. 5-1-85, passed 5-1-1985) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of State Building Code and Residential Code; enforcement agents,
see §
150.20
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Standards of Safety, see 815 KAR 10:060
§ 93.37 TYPE AND PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   (1)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only ionization or
photoelectric type detectors approved by a nationally-recognized testing
laboratory shall be installed.
      (2)   As an alternative to self-contained smoke detectors, under certain
limited conditions (that is, battery powered smoke detectors), an approved fire
detection system or a combination thereof may be installed. The Volunteer Fire
Department may subjectively, and on a case-by-case basis, approve each and
every alternative system in written form.
   (B)   (1)   Smoke detectors in new residential dwellings shall be wired
directly (hard wired) to the building’s power supply.
      (2)   In existing buildings, it is preferred that smoke detectors be
wired directly to the power supply; however, said detectors may be powered by
self-monitored battery or operated by an electrical plug-in outlet which is
fitted with a plug restrainer device, provided that the outlet is not
controlled by any switch other than the main power supply.
   (C)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable N.F.P.A.
Standards (see § 93.39). Detectors may be ceiling or wall mounted, provided
that if wall mounted they shall be within 12 inches, but not closer than six
inches to the ceiling.
   (D)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed to protect each
sleeping area. A SLEEPING AREA is defined as the area or areas of the dwelling
unit in which the bedrooms (or sleeping rooms) are located. Where bedrooms or
rooms ordinarily used for sleeping are separated by other use areas (such as
kitchens or living rooms, but not bathrooms or closets), they shall be
considered as separate sleeping areas for the purposes of this section. In a
dwelling unit which contains a well-defined sleeping room separated from the
other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be located in the
corridor within the unit or interior area giving direct access to the rooms
used for sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated and/or where a
single smoke detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas, there
shall be a smoke detector installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
   (E)   In a rooming unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling.
   (F)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
common areas, so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping
areas.
   (G)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed in or near each
stairway leading up to an occupied area in such a manner as to assure that
rising smoke is not obstructed in reaching the detector and the detector
intercepts rising smoke before it reaches the occupied areas.
(Prior Code, § 93.37) (Ord. 5-1-85, passed 5-1-1985) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 PROVIDING, INSTALLING, AND MAINTAINING SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing in an operable condition the required detector(s) and for providing
maintenance and testing in an owner-occupied residence; or for providing the
manufacturer’s maintenance and testing instructions to a tenant in the case of
rental property.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of detectors, in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions, which are
located in common areas and/or detectors in rooming units where the tenant
usually has short periods of occupancy (hotels, motels, or rooming or tourist
homes).
   (C)   The tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing the
detector, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, which are within
his or her exclusive control during the life of the tenancy. The tenant shall
be responsible for notifying, in writing, the owner when a detector becomes
inoperable, whereafter the owner has ten days in which to repair or replace in
operable condition said detector(s). In the battery operated type of detector,
battery replacement shall be the responsibility of the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy, it shall be the duty of the owner to test
and ascertain that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable
condition, and, if not, the owner shall be responsible for placing them in
operable condition prior to re-renting the unit.
   (E)   At every change of occupancy of every dwelling unit occasioned by or
incidental to a sale, lease or sub-lease of said unit, it shall be the duty of
the grantor thereof (that is, the seller, lessor, or sub-lessor, as the case
may be) to provide, before occupancy, to the new occupant that all smoke
detectors as required by this subchapter (or other applicable laws) are
installed and in proper working condition. Failure to comply with this division
(E) shall be punishable as set forth in this chapter, provided however, that
this division (E) shall not be construed to violate or render void any
contract, lease, or sub-lease subject hereto.
   (F)   No smoke detector or alternative system shall be directly connected
(permanently wired) to the electrical system of a structure without the proper
electrical certification.
(Prior Code, § 93.38) (Ord. 5-1-85, passed 5-1-1985) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.39 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS.
   This section is intended to be used with, and supplemented by, the
applicable provisions of the National Fire Protection Standards Nos. 72-E and
74 (current edition) which are hereby incorporated herein; however, if there
shall be any conflict between this subchapter and the said supplemental
standards, this subchapter and any rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto shall prevail. All amendments to or changes in N.F.P.A. Nos. 72-E and
74 shall be adopted and made part thereof without further reference.
(Prior Code, § 93.39) (Ord. 5-1-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 93.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall be primarily responsible for the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The City Building Department shall assist the Department by
making referrals to the Department as part of its regular inspection and
enforcement of all city housing, building, and safety codes. No building
permits for remodeling or repair of a dwelling unit shall be issued for any
dwelling unit not properly equipped with said detectors. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any new dwelling or dwelling unit not properly
equipped with said detectors. Detectors must be operable for the final
inspection of the City Building Inspector(s) and/or Volunteer Fire Department
Inspector.
      (2)   Instructions/maintenance booklets must be provided to the owner by
the manufacturer as per N.F.P.A. No. 74, and said documentation displayed to
the Building Inspector(s) during the final inspection.
(Prior Code, § 93.40) (Ord. 5-1-85, passed 5-1-1985)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $500, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   (1)   The minimum penalty for noncompliance with §§
93.35 through
93.40 shall be $250.
      (2)   Waiver provision. The penalty for noncompliance to §§
93.35 through
93.40 is automatically waived if the dwelling or dwelling unit is brought into
compliance with §§
93.35 through
93.40 within 30 days of the original violation. The property owner must request
an inspection from the Volunteer Fire Department to verify compliance and have
the waiver provision applied.
      (3)   Continued failure to comply may result in a maximum penalty of $500
or six months in jail.
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 5-1-85, passed 5-1-1985)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   (A)   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel,
cement, fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place.
   (B)   Any materials which fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or
deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place, shall be removed immediately by the person in charge of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Section
   
95.01   Establishment authorized; fees
§ 95.01 ESTABLISHMENT AUTHORIZED; FEES.
   The city authorizes the establishment of 911 Emergency Telephone Service
within its city, with a maximum fee not to exceed $0.55 per access line per
month for the first 18 months of installation, and a maximum fee not to exceed
$3.30 per access line per month for the initial charge thereafter, with neither
charge to exceed the total cost of 25 access lines per month on each monthly
telephone bill, and the Mayor is further authorized, if it becomes necessary,
to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement to create such a joint
Emergency Telephone Service, and to adopt regulations concerning the provisions
of this service.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 8-1-86, passed 8-6-1986; Ord. 01-1-1, passed 1-12-
2001; Ord. 12-02-05, passed 12-14-2005)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Permission required for removal or relocation of trees
Tree Commission
   
96.15   Establishment
   
96.16   Terms of office; compensation
   
96.17   Vacancies
   
96.18   Organization
   
96.19   Powers and duties
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Woodlawn, Kentucky, including any of its officers,
employees, or designated representatives.
   TREE. Any living, self-supporting woody or fibrous plant, usually having a
single woody trunk and having a diameter of not less than two inches measured
at a point four feet above the ground.
   TREE COMMISSION. The Tree Commission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 1994-4-1, passed - -1994)
§ 96.02 PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner in the city to remove or
relocate any tree in the city without the prior written permission of the Tree
Commission, and any such violation shall be a Class A misdemeanor in accordance
with the Kentucky Revised Statutes. In addition to a property owner, any
contractor, landscaper, or other person employed either directly or indirectly
by the property owner who causes a tree to be removed or relocated without
permission of the Tree Commission shall also be guilty of such an offense
subject to the same penalties.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 1994-4-1, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
96.99
TREE COMMISSION
§ 96.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Tree Commission is hereby established, to be known as the “City of
Woodlawn Tree Commission” or “Tree Commission.” The Tree Commission shall
consist of three members who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice
and consent of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 96.15) (Ord. 1994-4-1, passed - -1994)
§ 96.16 TERMS OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The initial Tree Commission shall contain one member appointed for a
term of one year, one member appointed for a term of two years, and one member
appointed for a term of three years.
   (B)   Thereafter, all subsequent appointments shall be for a term of two
years. Members of the Tree Commission may be appointed for consecutive terms.
All members of the Tree Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 96.16) (Ord. 1994-4-1, passed - -1994)
§ 96.17 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy occurring by reason of death, resignation, or removal by the
Mayor with consent of the City Commission shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the member. The Mayor may cause removal of the member of the Commission
for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or conflict of interest. Any
member of the Tree Commission removed from office by the Mayor may appeal the
removal to the entire City Commission within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 96.17) (Ord. 1994-4-1, passed - -1994)
§ 96.18 ORGANIZATION.
   The Tree Commission shall organize within 30 days after the appointment of
its initial total membership to adopt by-laws. The Commission shall annually
elect a Chairperson and such other officers as it shall deem necessary. The
Tree Commission shall meet at least annually and at such other times as it
determines necessary or when any business requiring the attention of the Tree
Commission occurs.
(Prior Code, § 96.18) (Ord. 1994-4-1, passed - -1994)
§ 96.19 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Tree Commission shall include the following.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall bring to the attention of the city
administration any tree of which it is aware which represents a threat to
public safety when said tree is dead or dying and its presence would cause
hardship or endanger the public or an adjoining property owner. The Tree
Commission shall also notify the city administration when a city tree is
diseased or infested so as to be a danger to other trees within the city. The
Tree Commission shall also notify the city administration when a tree is
considered a hazard because it obstructs the view of a motor vehicle or
otherwise interferes with traffic or pedestrian safety.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall also review and hold such hearings as are
necessary in the event that any property owner in the city wishes to remove,
whether by cutting down, transplanting, or otherwise changing the existing
location of any tree in the city. In holding such hearings, the Tree Commission
shall determine whether or not removal or relocating said tree would adversely
impact the erosion, soil conservation, beauty and shade, or other issues which
are or may be related to the removal or relocation of such tree. The Tree
Commission shall have the absolute authority to deny permission to any property
owner to remove or relocate any tree if the Tree Commission determines that
there would be any negative impact pursuant to any of the criteria listed above
to the city as a whole including adjacent property owners if such tree is
removed or relocated.
   (C)   (1)   The Tree Commission shall be charged with the responsibility of
making sure that the existing erosion problems of the city which exist because
the city is built on extremely hilly terrain and has already been stripped of
most natural tree growth in the construction of the housing stock of the city,
is not further exacerbated by any tree removal.
      (2)   Even replacement tree planting shall not be considered normally to
be a fair substitution since in the time it would take for a new tree to
develop a sufficient root system to curtail soil erosion there would almost
certainly be considerable erosion problems during the development of the new
tree’s root system.
(Prior Code, § 96.19) (Ord. 1994-4-1, passed - -1994)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 96.99)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk/Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his or her
business as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the
license desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Clerk/Treasurer and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14 licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
(KRS 92.310) (Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep
posted in a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate.
   (B)   Other licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times
and, whenever requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Commission at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Commission may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her
license has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee, as the case
may be, shall within three business days have the right to appeal to the City
Commission from the denial, revocation, or suspension.
   (B)   Notice of appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk/
Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for a hearing which shall be held
not later than one week thereafter.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the City Commission of the time
and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof.
   (D)   A majority of the City Commission members shall constitute a quorum to
hear the appeal.
   (E)   The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the City Commission present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become
final.
(Prior Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 110.99)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   A PEDDLER is:
         (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an ITINERANT MERCHANT.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a PEDDLER.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Commission.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above,
has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and/or
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
City Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Commission. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Commission, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
      (2)   The City Commission shall set the time and place for a hearing, and
notice for such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as
provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Commission after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler
or solicitor licensed under this chapter.
      (2)   The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed
Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the license.
      (3)   The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he
or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the City Commission, in the penal sum of $1,000. This
bond shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this
chapter and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with
this chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles effected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates
of all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any
property on deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite
the names and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all
property purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when
the loan falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned, and the
interest charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of
any police officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official
duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070) (Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01 may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans.
   (B)   Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as
interest for any purpose of law.
   (C)   No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower,
shall give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment,
specifying separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to
interest.
   (B)   In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under
an agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, County Police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3)) (Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest and refunds
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
   
113.06   Casualty losses
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 10% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 01-3-1, passed 3-14-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 91A.080(2)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, and
shall not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance
provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228, or premiums
received by any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A
for the purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 01-3-1, passed 3-14-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 91A.080(3), (10)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
   (B)   (1)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or
tax to a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that
an insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days of notice to the city paid.
      (2)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall
bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the
date due until paid.
(KRS 91A.080(9)) (Prior Code, § 113.04)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8)) (Prior Code, § 113.05)
§ 113.06 CASUALTY LOSSES.
   Each insurance company which pays to any property owner monies from a
casualty loss for complete destruction of a building in the city shall divert
to the city 10% of any insurance payout as a retainage to ensure that the
foundation of the demolished structure is adequately filled in. The city shall
hold that 10% of insurance proceeds in escrow and then turn over the proceeds
to the property owner or other entity entitled to such proceeds upon the City
Building Inspector certifying that the foundation has been filled in as
required by the city’s applicable building/property maintenance code ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 01-3-1, passed 3-14-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
   Property maintenance code, see
Ch. 151
CHAPTER 114: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   License fee imposed; date due
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   OCCUPATION. A business enterprise operated by a business owner whether
individually, in partnership, or as a corporation or lawful partnership, or any
other legal entity for the purpose of making a profit, regardless of whether
the business enterprise actually does generate a profit. The term OCCUPATION
shall include not only operating a business out of an established location in
the city but conducting business of a more transient nature in the city,
including, but not limited to, outside contractors performing contracting work
and other similar business enterprises in the city. The term OCCUPATION also
includes operating a housing rental business whether the rental be apartments
or whole house. Each separate unit of rental shall be considered a separate
business.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 99-6-2, passed 6-2-1999)
§ 114.02 LICENSE FEE IMPOSED; DATE DUE.
   (A)   There is hereby established an annual occupational license fee for
each business owner operating a for-profit business in the city.
   (B)   Each separate business shall require an occupational license fee no
matter how small and the fee shall be paid annually to the City Clerk/Treasurer
on or before September 1 of each year beginning fiscal year July 1, 1999.
   (C)   The amount of the fee shall be $50, payable in a lump sum.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 99-6-2, passed 6-2-1999) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Each business owner, whether individual, partnership, corporate, or
otherwise, who fails to obtain an occupational license in violation of this
chapter, shall be subject to the civil remedy of immediate cessation of
business upon application to a court of competent jurisdiction. In that event
the business owner or entity shall be liable to the city for all of its costs
related to obtaining a civil injunction prohibiting continuing business
operation, including Court costs, attorney fees, and related expenses. In
addition to civil remedies, the business owner or entity shall be assessed a
fine of up to $500, but each day of unlawful business enterprise in violation
of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense with the same penalties.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 99-6-2, passed 6-2-1999)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms prohibited
Curfew for Minors
   
130.15   Short title
   
130.16   Purpose
   
130.17   Definitions
   
130.18   Hours of curfew
   
130.19   Exceptions
   
130.20   Parental responsibility
   
130.21   Enforcement; police procedure
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is specifically prohibited for any person to discharge in the city
any firearm, air rifle, or other weapon capable of discharging any projectible,
or other objects capable of causing any injury to persons or damage to
property.
   (B)   Weapons subject to this section include all rifles, shotguns, pellet
guns, air rifles, BB guns, and similar weapons. Projectibles include bullets,
pellets, BBs, buckshot, birdshot, salt, and similar substances capable of
causing injury or damage.
   (C)   The following shall not apply to this section:
      (1)   Peace officers when acting in his or her capacity as a peace
officer;
      (2)   Persons acting in defense of persons or property;
      (3)   Within the confines of a licenses shooting range; and
      (4)   When specifically authorized by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 1996-12-1, passed 12-4-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Police Department; permission to carry concealed weapons, see §
37.01
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and shall be cited as the “Woodlawn Curfew
Ordinance” or “this subchapter.”
(Prior Code, § 130.15) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995)
§ 130.16 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is designed to provide for the protection of minors from
each other and from other persons on the street during the nighttime hours, the
enforcement of parental control of and responsibility for their children, the
protection of the public from mischief by minors, and the reduction in the
incidence of juvenile criminal activity.
(Prior Code, § 130.16) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995)
§ 130.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   MINOR. Any person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands “in loco parentis;” or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of Court.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995)
§ 130.18 HOURS OF CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for minors to be or remain in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway within the city at night during
the period beginning at 12:00 a.m. midnight and ending at 6:00 a.m. every day
of the week.
(Prior Code, § 130.18) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city during the nocturnal hours
provided for in §
130.18 shall not be considered in violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
   (C)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the Police Department;
   (D)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Newport Police Department.
   (E)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
commonwealth authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
   (F)   When the minor is, with a parent’s consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver;
   (G)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors may also be within the vehicle;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; and
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 130.19) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995)
§ 130.20 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian having legal custody of a
minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city under circumstances not
constituting an exception to this subchapter. It shall be no defense that a
parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts
of such minor.
(Prior Code, § 130.20) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 ENFORCEMENT; POLICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A police officer of the City of Newport upon finding or being notified
of any minor in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or
highway believed to be in violation of this subchapter shall confront such
minor and request such information as name, age, address, and the name of
parent or legal guardian. In addition, the police officer may request proof of
age of such minor.
   (B)   If it is determined that such minor is of the age subject to the
curfew (under 18 years of age), the police officer shall forthwith take the
minor to the police station, and the parent or guardian shall immediately be
notified to come for such minor, whereupon they shall be interrogated. This is
intended to discover the relevant facts and circumstances, and such information
shall be duly recorded for future reference in the event of subsequent
violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Police procedures may provide, inter alia, that a police officer may
deliver a minor to a parent or guardian under appropriate circumstances; for
example, a minor of tender age near home whose identity and address may be
readily ascertained or are known. In the event of such delivery, the police
officer shall file a written report within 24 hours, which shall be duly
recorded. The Chief of Police of the Newport Police Department, or his or her
duly authorized representative, can issue regulations to effectuate expeditious
procedure under this subchapter.
   (D)   When a parent has come to take charge of the minor and the appropriate
information has been recorded, the minor shall be released to the custody of
such parent.
   (E)   If a parent or guardian cannot be located, or fails to take charge of
the minor, the minor may temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor, or
other person who will assume the responsibility for the minor on behalf of the
parent or guardian pending the availability of the parent or guardian. In the
absence of any such person to assume the responsibility for the minor, the
minor shall be released to the juvenile authorities.
(Prior Code, § 130.21) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any persons convicted of a violation of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined up to $500 and/or
incarcerated up to 12 months. The Court, in addition, may order the weapon and
any ammunition forfeited to the citing police agency or the city.
   (C)   If, in connection with a first violation by a minor, a parent violates
§
130.20, this shall be treated as a first offense by the parent. For such first
parental offense, a parent or guardian shall be fined $25. For each subsequent
offense by a parent or guardian, the fine shall be increased by an additional
$25. For example, $50 for the second offense, $75 for the third offense, and
$100 for the fourth offense. For each offense subsequent to the fourth offense,
the fine shall be $100 for each violation. Any parent or guardian who violates
§
130.20 shall be deemed guilty of a violation.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 1995-8-1, passed - -1995; Ord. 1996-12-1, passed
12-4-1996)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
152.   PLANNING
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Notice of improvements to real property required
   
150.02   Newly constructed or converted buildings limited to two apartments
   
150.03   Construction of private driveways
   
150.04   Removal or covering of soil in yard areas restricted
   
150.05   Demolishing or moving buildings; wrecking permit required
   
150.06   Building permits; fee schedule
Standard Codes
   
150.20   Adoption of State Building Code and Residential Code; enforcement
agents
   
150.21   Application
   
150.22   Appeals
Flood Damage Prevention
   
150.35   Flood damage prevention regulations; adopted by reference
   
150.36   Floodplain Administrator
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Smoke detectors, see §§
93.35 through
93.40
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 NOTICE OF IMPROVEMENTS TO REAL PROPERTY REQUIRED.
   (A)   When any building or structure shall hereafter be built, enlarged,
improved, or altered within the city, the owner of the premises on which such
building or structure is situated shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer a
notice, signed by said owner, stating the kind, size, and total cost of such
enlargement, improvement, or alteration.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer may thereupon require a plan of the work together
with a statement of the materials used therein.
   (C)   No fee shall be charged for the filing of such notice.
   (D)   The information provided by such notice shall be used by the Board of
Equalization to determine the true value of the premises for the purposes of
property tax determination.
   (E)   Any property owner who fails to file such notice, as above prescribed,
within 30 days after such work is substantially completed shall be subject to
the penalty provided in §
150.99.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 4-1-72, passed 4-3-1972) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see
Ch. 35
§ 150.02 NEWLY CONSTRUCTED OR CONVERTED BUILDINGS LIMITED TO TWO APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Any newly constructed residential building and any existing building
converted from a single-family residence or other use in the city shall contain
no more than two apartments.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term APARTMENT shall mean a room,
or a suite of two or more rooms, in a residence building occupied as the home
or residence of an individual, family, or household.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 4-67, passed 8-7-1967) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Any construction of a private driveway within the city which
originates outside the city and then crosses the boundaries of the city into
the city shall not be permitted to be constructed so as to tie into an existing
city street or otherwise use the streets of the city for ingress and egress
without the specific authorization of the City Commission. In granting such
permission, the City Commission shall weigh the positive and negative effects
of such driveway tie-in and grant or deny permission to so construct based on
the best interests of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   (1)   Any driveway constructed within the limits of the city which
exceeds 100 feet in length shall be considered to be an extended private
driveway.
      (2)   Such driveways shall be at least 45 feet in width and shall also be
set back at least 15 feet from the adjoining lot line. This set back area shall
remain covered with vegetation that number of feet between the lot line and the
paved portion of the driveway.
   (C)   No permit for any construction of a driveway or any demolition of
structures or other preliminary work preparatory to construction of such a
driveway shall be issued by the City Building Inspector until the City
Commission is satisfied that the driveway to be constructed will meet the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Any construction without the requisite building permit shall be
punishable by §
150.99.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 6-1-90, passed 6-28-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 REMOVAL OR COVERING OF SOIL IN YARD AREAS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   As a preamble to the main provisions of this section, the intent of
this section is to reduce if not eliminate any lessening of the available soil
in yard areas as available in the city to absorb rain water and/or water
runoff. It is currently a significant problem in the city resulting from its
hilly topography, in that there is currently a great deal of water runoff not
absorbed by the soil and yard area in the city which causes significant water
drainage problems in the city and has recently resulted in significant damage
to city streets. It is within this context that the city is restricting any
lessening of the ground area available for water absorption and drainage.
   (B)   There is hereby prohibited any construction, installation, or any
other paving of any ground area in the city without the express permission of
the City Commission. By construction or paving of the ground area, it is meant
any pouring or installing of any driveway, patio, street, road, parking lot, or
other similar project which will lessen the available grass/yard/soil area
available to absorb rain water and runoff water.
   (C)   No one attempting such a project shall proceed without first applying
to the City Commission for permission to construct such a project. The City
Commission shall never give such permission except in very limited
circumstances, such as a very slight increase in size of a driveway or
installation of a very small outdoor patio. No project of any size or except as
expressly set forth in this section shall be permitted by the City Commission.
   (D)   The City Building Inspector shall not issue any building permits for
any project as listed in this section unless advance written permission to
construct such a project has first been obtained by the property owner from the
City Commission. Any construction without the requisite building permit shall
be punishable by §
150.99.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 7-1-92, passed 7-8-1992) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 DEMOLISHING OR MOVING BUILDINGS; WRECKING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Any real property owner, agent, contractor, tenant, or other
party who demolishes or moves any building or substantial part of a building,
or any garage or other outbuilding within the city shall, before he or she
commences such demolishing or moving, apply to the City Clerk/Treasurer for the
issuance of a wrecking permit and pay to the Clerk/Treasurer a fee according to
the schedule of fees established in division (B) below.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the fee, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a permit
to the applicant, which permit shall be signed by the Clerk/Treasurer and shall
indicate the name and address of the party to whom the permit is issued, the
location and type of the building or structure to which the permit applies, and
whether it is to be demolished or moved.
   (B)   The following schedule of fees is established for the issuance of
wrecking or moving permits pursuant to division (A) above:
      (1)   For the demolition of any building or substantial part of a
building, see the fees as set forth in §
150.06; and
      (2)   Moving any building or structure on the same lot, or to any other
lot, not using a public right-of-way, $50; moving any building or structure
over a public right-of-way, $150.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 7-1-71, passed - -1971)
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMITS; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   (1)   The following is the fee schedule for various types of building
permits and the fee for each type of permit.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum building permit fee of $100 for each
permit issued under division (A)(3)(b) below.
      (3)   On any project that requires state review, the city fees to be
imposed shall be at one-half of the published rate as determined below.
         (a)   Single- and multi-family residential dwellings (new construction
only).
            1.   These constructions shall be $0.09 per square foot of the
total floor area including living and garage areas.
            2.   Total floor area shall include all excavated areas, and shall
be measured to the outside faces of the exterior walls and shall be inclusive
of all living areas, garages, basements and storage areas, and the like.
         (b)   Building permit fee for alteration, remodeling, and repairs
only.
            1.   Residential buildings.
 
$100 to $1,000 in cost                                                         $25
For each additional $1,000 in cost for fraction thereof up to a maximum of 51%
of the building’s assessment. (Any improvement over 51% of the building’s  $10
assessment shall be considered as new construction.)
 
            2.   Non-residential buildings. One hundred dollars plus $0.04 per
square foot of the total floor area. Total floor area shall include all
excavated areas, and shall be measured to the outside faces of the exterior
walls and shall be inclusive of all living areas, garages, basements and
storage areas, and the like.
         (c)   Accessory uses.
 
Covered patios, decks, carports, fences, retaining walls, and the like $15
Radio or telephone transmission towers                                 $500
Swimming pools (permanent only)                                        $75
 
         (d)   Demolition.
 
Accessory structure $25
Non-residential     $300
Residential         $100
 
   (B)   The circumstances in which building permits are needed and must be
applied for are set forth specifically in prior ordinances setting forth the
circumstances in which building permits are required.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 1997-7-2, passed 7-2-1997)
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE AND RESIDENTIAL CODE; ENFORCEMENT
AGENTS.
   (A)   Adoption of the State Building Code.
      (1)   The State Building Code, promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the State
Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings, and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, are to be enforced by
the city as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   A copy of said State Building Code and the State Residential Code
is on file in the Office of the County Clerk, and the Clerk/Treasurer shall at
all times keep a copy of said building code for reference.
      (3)   A copy of the ordinance codified in this section shall be
transmitted to the Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction of the
state.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer.
      (1)   The County Fiscal Court Department of Building Inspections shall be
designated as the local enforcement agent/agency for said State Building Code.
      (2)   (a)   All Building Code inspections shall be performed by persons
certified by the State Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction.
         (b)   All electrical inspections shall be performed by persons
certified by the State Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction as an
Electrical Inspector.
   (C)   Building Inspection Program.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a Building Inspection Program is
hereby established in the city for application to all buildings subject to 815
KAR 7:120, State Building Code.
      (2)   The Building Inspection Program of the County Fiscal Court
Department of Building Inspections shall include plan review and inspections of
structures subject to 815 KAR 7:125, State Residential Code.
   (D)   Permits and fees. The fees for permits and inspections shall be as
provided for in a separate schedule.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 6-67, passed 10-2-1967; Ord. 3-2-09, passed 4-8-
2009; Ord. 16-01, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Prior Code, § 150.16)
§ 150.22 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings, and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
(Prior Code, § 150.17)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 150.35 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for the city, along with any
amendments or revisions, is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein. The Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance shall:
   (A)   Apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of
the city as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the Flood
Insurance Study for the county, and mandates that no structure or land in said
areas shall hereafter be located, or extended, converted, or structurally
altered without compliance with its provisions;
   (B)   Require the approval of the Floodplain Administrator and permit from
the City Mayor and the State Division of Water for the placement of new
construction, substantial improvements, or manufactured homes or businesses
within areas of special flood hazard; and
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements be constructed with
materials and utility requirement resistant to flood damage and the lowest
floor of any residential or business structure constructed or substantially
improved shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above base flood elevation.
(Ord. 2-1-4, passed 1-14-2014; Ord. 21-01, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 150.36 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city hereby appoints the Floodplain Administrator of the county to
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance, as adopted by reference in §
150.35, by granting or denying development permits in the special flood hazard
zones.
(Ord. 2-1-4, passed 1-14-2014)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, corporation, or association of persons
who shall undertake to demolish or move a building, a substantial part of a
building, or any other structure without having obtained a wrecking permit as
required in §
150.05 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
not exceeding $500 or 30 days imprisonment or such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the Court.
   (C)   Any person who violates the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform
State Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less
than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
   (D)   The penalty for violating the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance,
adopted by reference in § 150.30, shall be a fine of up to $250 or imprisonment
of not more than seven days for each day a violation continues.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 7-1-71, passed - -1971; Ord. 2-1-4, passed 1-14-
2014)
CHAPTER 151: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
151.01   BOCA National Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference
   
151.02   Additions, insertions, and changes
§ 151.01 BOCA NATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Department of Planning and Zoning within the County Fiscal Court, being marked
and designated as BOCA National Property Maintenance Code, including Appendix G
In-ground Swimming Pools and Appendix K Sound Transmission, as published by the
International Code Council and is hereby adopted as the code of the city for
regulating the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more
than three stories in height in the city and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions, and terms of the BOCA National Property Maintenance
Code, published by the International Code Council on file in the office of the
County Fiscal Court, Department of Planning and Zoning, are hereby referred to,
adopted, and make a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 1997-4-1, passed - -1997; Ord. 3-1-09, passed 4-8-
2009)
§ 151.02 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, AND CHANGES.
   The BOCA National Property Maintenance Code is amended and revised in the
following respects: Section R101.01 Insert: City of Woodlawn.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 1997-4-1, passed - -1997; Ord. 3-1-09, passed 4-8-
2009)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING
Section
   
152.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The City Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the Comprehensive Plan are available for public inspection
during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 1-2-83, passed 1-5-1983; Ord. 1-1-03, passed 1-8-
2003; Ord. 15-03, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
   
153.02   Zoning permits; fee schedule
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city zoning ordinance, and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully
set forth herein.
   (B)   The official zoning ordinance shall be available for public inspection
during normal hours in the offices of the city.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 6-1-83, passed 6-1-1983)
§ 153.02 ZONING PERMITS; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following fee schedule sets the various type of zoning permits and
the fees for each type of permit.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   New construction.
 
Each additional unit over two and up $10
One or two dwelling units            $35
 
         (b)   Additions to existing buildings.
 
Each increase in footprint building area of 1,000 square feet or less $25
For each 1,000 square feet for fraction                               $5
 
      (2)   Accessory uses.
 
Accessory uses (for example, storage sheds, decks, fences, detached $25
garages, swimming pools, and the like)
 
      (3)   Signs.
 
Class             Fee For Each Sign
Class 1 through 8 $45
 
      (4)   Excavation and grading prior to issuing a building permit.
 
Per acre (unplatted land)     $50
Per lot (platted subdivision) $25
 
      (5)   In-home occupations.
 
In-home occupations $100
 
   (B)   The need for obtaining zoning permits and under what circumstances are
required as specifically set forth in the city’s master zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 1997-7-2, passed 7-2-1997)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain unincorporated territory beginning at a
                     point in the present easterly municipal corporation line
2-62     7-2-1962    of the city, said point being the southwest corner of Lot
                     11, Plat B, Estate of Colonel James Taylor.
                     (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table I)
23-04    1-9-2024    Closing of a public way adjacent to the lots identified as
                     Lots 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 88, and 89.
                    
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with other
                       municipalities, agreeing to the terms and conditions of
7-24-72    7-24-1972   an inter-governmental cooperative agreement and creating
                       a Solid Waste Authority.
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table II)
                       Interlocal agreement for police protection by and
R. -       1-11-1988   between the City of Bellevue and the city.
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table II)
                       Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
                       between the County Fiscal Court and the cities of the
3-1-94     3-1-1994    county, establishing the County Cable Board as the cable
                       television regulatory authority for the participating
                       local governments.
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table II)
8-1-02     8-14-2002   Adopting an amended agreement to form and operate a
                       joint planning unit pursuant to KRS Ch. 100.
(Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table II)
                       Authorizing the Mayor and City Administrative Officer to
R. 11-1-04 11-10-2004  execute an interlocal agreement with Campbell County
                       Fiscal Court to establish a joint system for the
                       collection of business license fees for the city.
(Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table II)
                       Authorizing Mayor Ronald Barth to execute and interlocal
R. 1       2-13-2008   agreement with the Northern Kentucky Ethics Authority
                       contracting for the authority to provide all services
                       necessary as the Ethics Board of the city.
(Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table II)
                      
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Granting Storer Communications of Northern Kentucky a
11-1-81    11-4-1981   cable television franchise for 15 years.
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table III)
                       Granting and offering for sale a 20-year franchise to
8-1-85     9-4-1985    place gas transmission and distribution facilities in
                       public streets and places of the city.
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table III)
                       Accepting the bid of the Union Light, Heat and Power
                       Company as the highest and best bidder under Ordinance
8-1-85     9-4-1985    8-1-85, and designating said company as the grantee of
                       such franchise.
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table III)
                       Granting TCI-TKR of Northern Kentucky, Inc. a renewal
98-1       4-1-1998    for cable television.
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table III)
                       Granting a 12-year competitive franchise for the
                       operation of a cable television system within the
R. 3-01-09 3-11-2009   confines of the city to Cincinnati Bell Extended
                       Territories LLC (CBET).
                       (Prior Code, Table of Special Ordinances, Table III)
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
 
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
6.050                   32.42
6.955 through 6.975     33.04
Chapter 13A             93.02
Chapter 13B             93.06
Chapter 18A             113.03
18A.225(2)              113.03
18A.228                 113.03
41.240(4)               33.05
42.450 through 42.495   33.04
Chapter 61              32.16
61.800 et seq.          32.16
61.870                  34.01
61.870 through 61.882   31.31
61.870 through 61.884   34.27;
                        36.071
61.872 through 61.884   36.020
61.872(4)               34.16
61.872(5)               34.17
61.872(6)               34.18
61.874(1) (3)           34.22
61.874(3)               34.23
61.874(4)               34.23
61.874(5)               34.24
61.874(6)               34.25
61.878                  34.01;
                        34.26
61.878(1)               34.26
61.880                  34.19
61.880(1)               34.26
61.884                  34.21
62.020                  31.01
65.003                  36.003
65.067                  31.01
65.120                  Ch. 72
65.210 et seq.          36.070
66.660                  91.06
82.082                  36.003
Chapter 83A             31.03
83A.010(3)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.030(2)              30.02
83A.040(1)              31.15
83A.040(2)              31.15
83A.040(2)(b)           31.15
83A.040(2)(d)           31.16
83A.040(3)              31.15
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              31.15;
                        32.02
83A.040(7)              31.15;
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.15;
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.050                 31.15
83A.060(1)              32.30
83A.060(2)              32.31
83A.060(3)              32.32
83A.060(4)              32.33
83A.060(5)              32.34
83A.060(6)              32.17
83A.060(7)              32.33
83A.060(8)              32.35;
                        32.36
83A.060(9)              32.37
83A.060(10)             32.38
83A.060(11)             32.39
83A.060(12)             32.40
83A.060(13)             32.40
83A.060(14)             32.41
83A.060(15)             32.42
83A.065                 10.99
83A.070                 31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080                 36.004
83A.080(1) (3)          31.30
83A.080(3)              31.03
83A.085(3)(a) (d)       31.31
83A.085(3)(d)           31.31
83A.085(3)(e)           31.31
83A.080(4)              31.15
83A.080(5)              31.15
83A.090                 32.04
83A.130                 31.16
83A.140(1)              30.01
83A.140(2)              30.02
83A.140(3)              32.03
83A.140(4)              31.16;
                        32.15
83A.140(5)              32.03
83A.140(6)              32.04
83A.140(7)              32.16
83A.140(8)              32.03
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010(6)              33.01
91A.010(7)              33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080(2)              113.02
91A.080(3)              113.03
91A.080(8)              113.04;
                        113.05
91A.080(9)              113.04
91A.080(10)             113.03
91A.200                 33.21
91A.210                 33.20
91A.220                 33.21
91A.230                 33.22
91A.240                 33.23
91A.250                 33.24
91A.260                 33.25
91A.270                 33.26
91A.280                 33.27
91A.290                 33.28
92.310                  110.04
Chapter 100             TSO Table III
Chapter 107             33.21
116 through 121         31.03
118.305(7)              31.16
131.010(6)              113.04
132.285                 35.01
134.800                 35.04
134.810                 35.04
Chapter 154             34.26
174.100                 91.20
174.100(1)              91.21
174.100(2)              91.22
174.100(3)              91.22
174.100(4)              91.23
174.100(5)              91.24
174.100(6)              91.25
174.100(7)              91.25
178.290                 91.06
186.010(11)             72.13
189.020                 71.37
189.285                 73.02
189.287                 73.01
189.290                 71.35
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.20
189.394                 Ch. 74, Schd. II
189.450(5)              72.03
189.450(6)              72.03
189.580                 71.20
189.725                 72.08
189.930                 71.36
189.990(1)              72.99
189.993(8)              71.99
Chapter 198B            150.22
198B.060(8)             150.20
198B.070                150.22
198B.990(1)             150.99
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.07
226.070                 112.03
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.07;
                        112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
226.990(3)              112.99
227.700                 93.01
227.700 through 227.750 93.01;
                        93.06
                        93.01;
227.702                 93.02;
                        93.03
227.702(1)              93.03
227.704                 93.01
227.706                 93.01
227.708                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
                        93.01;
227.715                 93.02;
                        93.03
227.715(7) through (9)  93.03
227.720                 93.04
227.730                 93.05
227.750                 93.06
227.990(4)              93.99
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
411.500 through 411.570 Ch. 92
                        32.37;
Chapter 424             33.04;
                        33.24;
                        33.25
424.220                 33.04
436.600                 90.04;
                        90.99
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(7)              10.02
446.010(8)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(11)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(16)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(22)             10.02
446.010(24)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(29)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(34)             10.02
446.010(36)             10.02
446.010(40)             10.02
446.010(41)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(44)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(52)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
525.125                 90.03;
                        90.06
                        90.03;
525.130                 90.06;
                        90.99
                        90.06;
525.135                 90.07;
                        90.99
527.020(1)              37.01
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
534.040                 90.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section     2024 Code Section
10.01                  10.01
10.02                  10.02
10.03                  10.03
10.04                  10.04
10.05                  10.05
10.06                  10.06
10.07                  10.07
10.08                  10.08
10.09                  10.09
10.10                  10.10
10.11                  10.11
10.12                  10.12
10.13                  10.14
10.14                  10.14
10.15                  10.15
10.16                  10.16
10.17                  10.17
10.18                  10.18
10.99                  10.99
30.01                  30.01
30.02                  30.02
31.01                  31.01
31.02                  31.02
31.03                  31.03
31.15                  31.20
31.16                  31.21
31.17                  31.22
31.30                  31.35
31.31                  31.36
31.31                  31.37
31.32                  31.38
32.01                  32.01
32.02                  32.02
32.03                  32.03
32.04                  32.04
32.15                  32.20
32.16                  32.21
32.17                  32.22
32.30                  32.35
32.31                  32.36
32.32                  32.37
32.33                  32.38
32.34                  32.39
32.35                  32.40
32.36                  32.41
32.37                  32.42
32.38                  32.43
32.39                  32.44
32.40                  32.45
32.41                  32.46
32.42                  32.47
33.01                  33.01
33.02                  33.02
33.03                  33.03
33.04                  33.04
33.05                  33.05
33.10                  33.20
33.11                  33.21
33.12                  33.22
33.13                  33.23
33.14                  33.24
33.15                  33.25
33.16                  33.26
33.17                  33.27
33.18                  33.28
34.01                  34.01
34.05                  34.15
34.06                  34.16
34.07                  34.17
34.08                  34.18
34.09                  34.19
34.10                  34.20
34.11                  34.21
34.12                  34.22
34.13                  34.23
34.14                  34.24
34.15                  34.25
34.16                  34.26
34.17                  34.27
35.01                  35.01
35.02                  35.02
35.03                  35.03
35.04                  35.04
35.05                  35.05
36.01                  36.001
36.02                  36.002
36.03                  36.003
36.04                  36.004
36.10                  36.015
36.11                  36.016
36.12                  36.017
36.13                  36.018
36.14                  36.019
36.15                  36.020
36.16                  36.021
36.17                  36.022
36.20                  36.035
36.21                  36.036
36.22                  36.037
36.23                  36.038
36.24                  36.039
36.25                  36.040
36.30                  36.055
36.40                  36.070
36.41                  36.071
36.99                  36.999
37.01                  37.01
37.10                  37.15
50.01                  50.01;
                       50.99
50.02                  50.02
50.99                  50.99
51.01                  51.01
51.02                  51.02
51.03                  51.03
51.04                  51.04
51.06                  51.05
51.07                  51.06
51.08                  51.07
51.09                  51.08
51.10                  51.09
51.11                  51.10
51.12                  51.11
51.13                  51.12
51.14                  51.13
51.15                  51.14
51.16                  51.15
51.17                  51.16
51.18                  51.17
51.19                  51.18
51.20                  51.19
51.21                  51.20
51.22                  51.21
70.01                  70.01
70.02                  70.02
70.03                  70.03
70.04                  70.04
70.05                  70.05
70.15                  70.20
70.16                  70.21
70.17                  70.22
70.18                  70.23
70.19                  70.24
70.20                  70.25
70.21                  70.26
70.99                  70.99
71.01                  71.01
71.02                  71.02
71.03                  71.03
71.04                  71.04
71.05                  Ch. 74, Schd. II
71.15                  71.20
71.16                  71.21
71.25                  71.35
71.26                  71.36
71.27                  71.37
71.40                  71.50
71.41                  71.51
71.42                  71.52
71.43                  71.53
71.44                  71.54
71.45                  71.55
71.46                  71.56
71.47                  71.57
71.48                  71.58
71.49                  71.59
71.50                  71.60
71.51                  71.61
71.99                  71.99;
                       Ch. 74, Schd. II
72.01                  72.01
72.02                  72.02
72.03                  72.03
72.04                  72.04
72.05                  72.05
72.06                  72.06
72.07                  72.07
72.08                  72.08
72.09                  72.09
72.10                  72.10
72.11                  72.11
72.12                  72.12
72.13                  72.13
72.20                  72.25
72.21                  72.26
72.22                  72.27
72.99                  72.99
73.01                  73.01
73.02                  73.02
73.03                  73.03
73.04                  73.04
73.99                  73.99
Chapter 74, Schedule I Ch. 74, Schd. I
Chapter 75, Schedule I Ch. 75, Schd. I
90.01                  90.01
90.02                  90.02
90.03                  90.03
90.04                  90.04
90.05                  90.05
90.06                  90.06
90.07                  90.07
90.15                  90.20
90.16                  90.21
90.17                  90.22
90.18                  90.23
90.19                  90.24
90.20                  90.25
90.21                  90.26
90.35                  90.40
90.36                  90.41
90.37                  90.42
90.38                  90.43
90.39                  90.44
90.40                  90.45
90.41                  90.46
90.42                  90.47
90.55                  90.60
90.56                  90.61
90.57                  90.62
90.58                  90.63
90.59                  90.64
90.99                  90.99
91.01                  91.01
91.02                  91.02
91.03                  91.03
91.04                  91.04
91.05                  91.05
91.06                  91.06
91.07                  91.07
91.15                  91.20
91.16                  91.22
91.17                  91.22
91.18                  91.23
91.19                  91.24
91.20                  91.25
91.30                  91.40
91.31                  91.41
91.32                  91.42
91.33                  91.43
91.34                  91.44
91.35                  91.45
91.99                  91.99
92.01                  92.01
92.02                  92.02
92.99                  92.99
93.01                  93.01
93.02                  93.02
93.03                  93.03
93.04                  93.04
93.05                  93.05
93.06                  93.06
93.20                  93.20
93.22                  93.21
93.35                  93.35
93.36                  93.36
93.37                  93.37
93.38                  93.38
93.39                  93.39
93.40                  93.40
93.99                  93.99
94.01                  94.01
94.02                  94.02
94.03                  94.03
94.04                  94.04
94.05                  94.05
94.99                  94.99
95.01                  95.01
96.01                  96.01
96.02                  96.02
96.15                  96.15
96.16                  96.16
96.17                  96.17
96.18                  96.18
96.19                  96.19
96.99                  96.999
110.01                 110.01
110.02                 110.02
110.03                 110.03
110.04                 110.04
110.05                 110.05
110.06                 110.06
110.07                 110.07
110.08                 110.08
110.09                 110.09
110.99                 110.99
111.01                 111.01
111.02                 111.02
111.03                 111.03
111.04                 111.04
111.05                 111.05
111.06                 111.06
111.07                 111.07
111.08                 111.08
111.99                 111.99
112.01                 112.01
112.02                 112.02
112.03                 112.03
112.04                 112.04
112.05                 112.05
112.06                 112.06
112.07                 112.07
112.08                 112.08
112.99                 112.99
113.01                 113.01
113.02                 113.02
113.03                 113.03
113.04                 113.04
113.05                 113.05
113.06                 113.06
114.01                 114.01
114.02                 114.02
114.99                 114.99
130.01                 130.01
130.15                 130.15
130.16                 130.16
130.17                 130.17
130.18                 130.18
130.19                 130.19
130.20                 130.20
130.21                 130.21
130.99                 130.99
150.01                 150.01
150.02                 150.02
150.03                 150.03
150.04                 150.04
150.05                 150.05
150.06                 150.06
150.15                 150.20
150.16                 150.21
150.17                 150.22
150.99                 150.99
151.01                 151.01
151.02                 151.02
152.01                 152.01
153.01                 153.01
153.02                 153.02
                       
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        1-11-1988   TSO Table II
                     72.03;
2-1-95   - -1995     72.04;
                     Ch. 75, Schd. I
11-1-04  11-10-2004  TSO Table II
1        2-13-2008   TSO Table II
3-01-09  3-11-2009   TSO Table III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
86        11-5-1956   TSO Table II
2-62      7-2-1962    TSO Table I
4-67      8-7-1967    150.02
6-67      10-2-1967   150.20
3-69      3-3-1969    91.44
7-1-71    - -1971     150.05;
                      150.99
5-1-71    7- -1971    37.01
4-1-72    4-3-1972    150.01
7-24-72   7-24-1972   TSO Table II
10-1-73   10-1-1973   37.15
5-1-74    5-6-1974    72.13
11-1-74   11-4-1974   91.45
6-1-75    6-4-1975    32.16
10-1-76   10-6-1976   Ch. 74, Schd. II
1-1-79    1-3-1979    50.01
11-1-79   11-7-1979   Ch. 74, Schd. I
3-1-81    4-1-1981    31.31
11-1-81   11-4-1981   TSO Table III
                      92.01;
5-1-82    5-5-1982    92.02;
                      92.99
1-2-83    1-5-1983    152.01
6-1-83    6-1-1983    153.01
                      93.35 —
5-1-85    5-1-1985    93.40;
                      93.99
                      90.20 —
                      90.26;
5-2-85    5-1-1985    90.40 —
                      90.47;
                      90.99
8-1-85    9-4-1985    TSO Table III
8-1-85    9-4-1985    TSO Table III
                      35.02;
10-5-85   10-2-1985   35.03;
                      35.05
8-1-86    8-6-1986    95.01
6-1-90    6-28-1990   150.03
7-1-92    7-8-1992    150.04
                      96.01;
1994-4-1  - -1994     96.02;
                      96.15 —
                      96.19
3-1-94    3-1-1994    TSO Table II
                      130.15 —
1995-8-1  - -1995     130.21;
                      130.99
10-1-95   10-4-1995   50.02;
                      50.99
1996-12-1 12-4-1996   130.01;
                      130.99
1997-4-1  - -1997     151.01;
                      151.02
1997-7-2  7-2-1997    150.06
98-1      4-1-1998    TSO Table III
                      114.01;
99-6-2    6-2-1999    114.02;
                      114.99
8-1-00    8-2-2000    32.16
01-1-1    1-12-2001   95.01
                      113.02;
01-3-1    3-14-2001   113.03;
                      113.06
5-1-02    5-8-2002    31.02
7-2-02    7-3-2002    72.13
8-1-02    8-14-2002   TSO Table II
9-1-02    9-11-2002   91.07;
                      91.99
10-1-02   10-9-2002   72.02
1-1-03    1-8-2003    152.01
12-01-05  12-14-2005  51.01 —
                      51.21
12-02-05  12-14-2005  95.01
                      36.001 —
                      36.004;
                      36.015 
                      36.022;
10-1-08   10-8-2008   36.035 —
                      36.040;
                      36.055;
                      36.070;
                      36.071;
                      36.999
3-1-09    4-8-2009    151.01;
                      151.02
3-2-09    4-8-2009    150.20
                      90.60 —
4-1-09    4-8-2009    90.64;
                      90.99
2011-4-01 3-18-2011   50.01
                      150.35;
2-1-4     1-14-2014   150.36;
                      150.99
15-03     11-10-2015  152.01
16-01     7-19-2016   150.20
19-02     6-11-2019   50.01
21-01     6-8-2021    150.35
23-04     1-9-2024    TSO Table I
                     
 
