ADA COUNTY, ID
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 994, passed 1-27-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
            This Volume I code of the County of Ada County, as supplemented,
contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 994, passed January 27, 2025.
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
COUNTY ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE 1
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: 1984 Code; Ord. 258, 12-3-1992; Ord. 258-1, 12-
  31-1992.
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the board of county commissioners, this county code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of Ada
County. This county code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ADA
COUNTY CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the board of
commissioners and shall be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this county code by title in any legal document 1 . (Ord. 403, 8-8-2000)
 
Notes
1 2. § 31-714 et seq., Idaho Code.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the county of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 403, 8-8-2000)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this county code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this county code. The
board, prior to its consideration of any such ordinance, shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. Any amendment to this county code shall be passed by the board in
accordance with Idaho Code sections 31-714 through 31-716. All such amendments
or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers and
the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place
in each copy of this county code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this county code.
(Ord. 403, 8-8-2000; amd. Ord. 419, 2-13-2001)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this county code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the board of commissioners. The county clerk- recorder shall see that the
replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in
the office of said clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of
this county code shall make every effort to maintain this code in an up-to-date
and efficient manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered to him or made available to him
through the office of the county clerk-recorder. Said code books, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of the
clerk-recorder when directed so to do by order of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. 403, 8-8-2000)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this
County Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this County
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
County; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this County Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this
County Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed in violation of such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under, or by virtue of, any general ordinance of the County herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
County under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this County Code.
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this County Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1984 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this County Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this County Code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this County Code which contains any express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the County has been changed
in the content of this County Code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the County's ordinances is not meant to amend the
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of County Commissioners of Ada
County, Idaho.
CODE: The Code of Ordinances of Ada County, and all amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The County of Ada, State of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
County of Ada".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the County for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law
1 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the County; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the County of
Ada".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any land trust
beneficiary, part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee
of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public
places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to
write, by his proper mark. (1984 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. § 18-111, Idaho Code.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1984 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, for any offense 1 , or by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and no imprisonment, when the
offense is designated as an infraction, by state law or by any section or
provision of this code 2 . (1984 Code; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. § 31-714, Idaho Code, as may from time to time be amended and/or retitled.
2 2. §§ 18-111 and 18-113A, Idaho Code, as may from time to time be amended and/or
  retitled.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor or an infraction, as appropriate. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting attorney may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1984 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1984 Code)
CHAPTER 5
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
(Rep. by Ord. 887, 6-25-2018)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Police Training Required
1-6-1: POLICE TRAINING REQUIRED:
The board of county commissioners hereby declare that it desires to qualify to
receive aid for police training from the Idaho peace officer standards and
training council under the provisions of chapter 51, section 19-5109, Idaho
Code. Pursuant to Idaho Code, section 19-5110, the county, while receiving aid
from the Idaho peace officer standards and training council pursuant to said
chapter 51, will adhere to the standards for employment and training
established by the Idaho peace officer standards and training council. (Ord.
36, 3-10-1970; amd. 1984 Code)
CHAPTER 7
AT WILL PERSONNEL SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-7-1: Purpose And Scope
1-7-2: Effective Dates
1-7-3: Creation Of Ada County Employee/Manager Handbook
1-7-4: Creation Of Human Resources Procedural Handbook
1-7-5: Additional Policies And Procedures
1-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
Idaho is an at will state for employment purposes. It is the intention of the
board of county commissioners of Ada County to bring its employment policies in
line with an at will system of personnel administration. At will employees
serve at the will and pleasure of their supervising elected officials. Their
employment may be terminated at any time, with or without cause. Ada County at
will employees retain all the employment protections guaranteed by state and
federal law. It is both good business practice and sound public policy for Ada
County to have personnel administration under an at will system that is clear
and manageable for employees, supervisors and elected officials. The board of
county commissioners finds that an at will personnel system will aid in the
retention of skilled employees and serve the public interest. (Ord. 654, 2-20-
2007)
1-7-2: EFFECTIVE DATES:
Effective June 1, 2007, title 1, chapters 7 and 11 of this code are hereby
repealed. Effective June 1, 2007, this chapter is hereby enacted implementing
an at will system of personnel administration. On the same date, handbooks
providing the human resource policies and procedures of Ada County will be
adopted by resolution of the board of Ada County commissioners. (Ord. 654, 2-
20-2007)
1-7-3: CREATION OF ADA COUNTY EMPLOYEE/MANAGER HANDBOOK:
In the interim period prior to the effective date of the new personnel system,
the Ada County department of administrative services shall prepare a draft
handbook for review by the board of Ada County commissioners. This handbook
will be an overall guide to the county personnel system. The handbook shall be
adopted by resolution of the board of county commissioners. It may be amended
from time to time by the board of county commissioners for such reasons as they
may determine. Between the adoption date hereof and the effective date of June
1, 2007, employees are encouraged to review a draft of this handbook and meet
with representatives of the human resources division concerning the handbook
and/or implementation of this chapter. The Ada County department of
administrative services shall provide a copy of the handbook to each employee
of Ada County by such means as they determine to be most effective. (Ord. 654,
2-20-2007)
1-7-4: CREATION OF HUMAN RESOURCES PROCEDURAL HANDBOOK:
Prior to the effective date hereof further procedural guidelines shall be
promulgated by the Ada County department of administrative services and
circulated to each elected official for comment. The "Human Resources
Procedural Guidelines Handbook" shall provide a guide for supervisors,
department heads and elected officials in the implementation of the Ada County
employment handbook. On or after June 1, 2007, such "Human Resources Procedural
Guidelines Handbook", amended, as the board of county commissioners shall deem
appropriate, shall be adopted by resolution. The "Human Resources Procedural
Guidelines Handbook" may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
board of Ada County commissioners. (Ord. 654, 2-20-2007)
1-7-5: ADDITIONAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
In addition to using the "Ada County Employee/Manager Handbook" and "Human
Resources Procedural Guidelines Handbook", elected officials may adopt such
further policies and procedures to meet the unique needs of the offices they
administer as are not in conflict with the policies and procedures described in
the "Ada County Employee/Manager Handbook" and "Human Resources Procedural
Guidelines Handbook" and/or state and federal laws. (Ord. 654, 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 8
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT GUARANTEE FUND
SECTION:
1-8-1: Guarantee Fund Created
1-8-2: Mill Levy For Fund Established, Exceptions
1-8-3: Warrants Drawn Against Fund, Procedures
1-8-4: Limitations On Claims
1-8-5: Monies And Properties Allocated To Guarantee Fund
1-8-6: Excess Monies, Disposition
1-8-1: GUARANTEE FUND CREATED:
For the purpose of guaranteeing, to the extent of such fund, the payment of
bonds or warrants and interest thereon issued by Ada County in payment of all
costs and expenses incurred, assessed against, and charged upon all lots and
lands abutting, adjoining, contiguous and adjacent to any improvements ordered
by the board of county commissioners and included within the boundaries of
local improvement districts created by the board, there is hereby created a
local improvement guarantee fund. (Ord. 117, 8-12-1981)
1-8-2: MILL LEVY FOR FUND ESTABLISHED, EXCEPTIONS:
There is hereby fixed and established a mill levy not to exceed one mill in any
one year for the purpose of obtaining funds for the said guarantee fund by
which to pay bonds or warrants together with interest thereon issued in payment
of all costs and expenses incurred, assessed against and charged upon all lots
and lands abutting, adjoining, contiguous and adjacent to any local
improvements ordered by the board and included within a local improvement
district created by the board, or in lieu of said mill levy, the board may, by
ordinance, appropriate and transfer from the general fund such sums as
determined by the board sufficient to guarantee to the extent of such fund the
payment of all bonds or warrants together with interest thereon in payment of
all costs and expenses incurred, assessed against, or charged upon all lands
and lots abutting, adjoining, contiguous and adjacent to improvements ordered
by the board and included within a local improvement district created by the
board; provided, that such sums so levied or appropriated in any year shall not
exceed five percent (5%) of the outstanding obligations thereby guaranteed;
provided, further, that the board shall not appropriate or levy any tax when
the amount of monies in the local improvement guarantee fund equals ten percent
(10%) of the total outstanding obligations thereby guaranteed. (Ord. 117, 8-12-
1981)
1-8-3: WARRANTS DRAWN AGAINST FUND, PROCEDURES:
Whenever a bond or warrant issued for and drawn against any local improvement
district fund is presented to the county treasurer for payment and there is not
a sufficient sum of monies in the particular local improvement district fund by
which to pay said bond or warrant together with interest, the treasurer may
issue and draw warrants upon and against the local improvement guarantee fund,
which warrants when presented to the treasurer for payment, if not paid, shall
be registered and draw interest at a rate to be fixed by the board. Warrants
drawing and bearing interest as herein provided may be issued against said
local improvement guarantee fund to meet any financial liability against said
fund, but the board, at the time of making its annual levy, shall provide for a
levy of a sum sufficient with other resources of said local improvement
guarantee fund to pay warrants so issued and outstanding, the tax for this
purpose not to exceed one mill in any one year and shall be in addition to any
and all other statutory and ordinance limitations. In lieu of issuing warrants
as aforesaid, the board, whenever there is not a sufficient amount of monies in
said local improvement guarantee fund at any time to pay any and all warrants
together with interest thereon drawn against the local improvement guarantee
fund, may replenish said fund by transferring or appropriating to it monies
from the general fund of the county or any other available source as may be
determined by the board, subject to the limitations of this chapter. (Ord. 117,
8-12-1981)
1-8-4: LIMITATIONS ON CLAIMS:
The holder or owner of any local improvement district bond or warrant, or the
holder or owner of any warrant issued and drawn under the provisions of this
chapter, shall have no claim against the county except to the extent of the
funds created and received from and by the special assessments made and levied
for the improvements within any local improvement district for which bonds or
warrants were issued and except to the extent of the holder's or owner's pro
rata share of the local improvement guarantee fund hereby created. The county
shall not be liable to any holder or owner of such bonds or warrants for any
loss to the said guarantee fund occurring in the lawful operation thereof.
Whenever there shall be paid out of the local improvement guarantee fund any
sum on account of principal or interest of a local improvement district bond or
warrant, the county, as trustee for the said guarantee fund, shall be
subrogated to all the rights of the holder or owner of the bond or warrant
together with interest so paid and the special assessments represented by the
bond or warrant so paid shall become a part of the said guarantee fund. Any
surplus remaining in any local improvement district fund after the payment of
all outstanding bonds or warrants together with interest shall be paid into the
said guarantee fund. All bonds or warrants guaranteed by said guarantee fund
shall have no preference except in the order of presentation for payment. (Ord.
117, 8-12-1981)
1-8-5: MONIES AND PROPERTIES ALLOCATED TO GUARANTEE FUND:
All funds or monies derived from the assignment of delinquency certificates,
redemptions, sale of property under foreclosure for delinquent assessments, or
from the rent or sale of property, title to which had been obtained by the
county for nonpayment of local improvement district assessment, shall be paid
into the said guarantee fund. All delinquency certificates issued and all
property acquired shall be held by the county for the benefit of such guarantee
fund. The funds and monies belonging to said guarantee fund may be used to
redeem bonds or warrants, together with interest guaranteed by the said
guarantee fund, or to purchase property at county tax sales for the purpose of
protecting the said guarantee fund. If the county acquires title to the
property subject to local improvement assessments, it may lease or sell and
convey the said property for such price and on such terms as determined by the
board, and all proceeds resulting therefrom shall belong to and be paid into
the said guarantee fund; provided, however, that in the event the county
purchases such property at a tax sale or otherwise, it shall not be sold and
conveyed for a lesser sum than the county paid. (Ord. 117, 8-12-1981)
1-8-6: EXCESS MONIES, DISPOSITION:
Whenever the funds or monies in the local improvement guarantee fund exceed in
amount ten percent (10%) of the total outstanding obligations thereby
guaranteed, then the board may by ordinance authorize the county treasurer to
return and pay such excess or any part thereof to the general fund; or the
board may, by ordinance, authorize the treasurer to use said excess or any
designated part thereof in payment of all or any part of any local improvement
district bonds or warrants together with interest thereon then issued and
outstanding. (Ord. 117, 8-12-1981)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
1-9-1: Public Corporation Created
1-9-2: Powers of the Corporation
1-9-3: Charter Issued to the Corporation
1-9-4: Board of Directors
1-9-5: Conflict of Interest
1-9-6: Financial Restrictions and Requirements
1-9-7: The Charter
1-9-8: Ratification
1-9-1: PUBLIC CORPORATION CREATED:
   A.   The County of Ada does hereby create a public corporation to carry out
the purposes of title 50, chapter 27, Idaho Code, hereinafter referred to as
"the Act" 1 .
   B.   This Chapter shall not be construed to limit or restrict the purposes
of the Act, but shall be liberally construed to effect such purposes.
   C.   The name of the public corporation shall be the Industrial Development
Corporation of the County of Ada, State of Idaho.
 
Notes
  1. Title 50, chapter 27, Idaho Code provides for the creation of public
  corporations by the counties of the State of Idaho for the purpose of
1 facilitating economic development and employment opportunities in the State
  of Idaho through financing, by such public corporations, of the project costs
  of industrial development facilities.
1-9-2: POWERS OF THE CORPORATION:
The Corporation shall have all the powers, and be subject to all the
limitations and provisions, contained in the Act. Such powers shall include,
without limitation, all powers set forth in the Charter of the Corporation
provided for in Section
1-9-3 hereof.
1-9-3: CHARTER ISSUED TO THE CORPORATION:
A charter is hereby issued by the County to the Corporation, the existence of
the Corporation to commence at the time the enactment of this Chapter becomes
effective. The Charter grants to the Corporation all powers authorized by the
Act, and may be amended from time to time by the Board of County Commissioners.
The Charter is set out at length in Section
1-9-7 of this Chapter, and is hereby approved pursuant to section 50-2703(1),
Idaho Code. (Ord. 129, 3-9-83)
1-9-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Composition: The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be
comprised of five (5) residents of the County, appointed by the Board of Ada
County Commissioners, by duly adopted resolution. No member of the Board may
hold elective office in any Federal, State, County or municipal governmental
agency during his term on the Board. The members shall serve staggered terms of
two (2) or four (4) years in length. Three (3) members shall be appointed to
four (4) year terms. Two (2) members shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Members may be reappointed to any number of successive terms. In the event that
a member of the Board shall for any reason be unwilling or unable to serve as a
Director of the Board, the Board of Ada County Commissioners shall, by
resolution, designate a resident of the County to serve as a Director of the
Board in place of such member for a term coterminous with the duration of such
member's term in office. (Ord. 129, 3-9-83; amd. 1984 Code)
   B.   Officers of the Board: The Board shall elect officers from among its
own members. Such officers shall be elected at the initial meeting of the Board
in each calendar year, shall serve until their successors have been duly
elected, and shall include a president and a secretary, and may include a vice-
president and an assistant secretary. The offices of vice-president and
assistant secretary may be held simultaneously by the same person, provided
that in such event, such person shall not both execute and attest any
resolution, document, certificate, deed, mortgage, deed of trust, note, bond,
contract or other document or instrument. The Board may elect such other
officers as it shall from time to time determine to be necessary or desirable.
   C.   Bylaws, Rules and Regulations of the Board: The Board shall adopt
bylaws and/or rules and regulations governing the election of officers, the
power and duty of such officers, the filling of vacancies in offices, the
scheduling, giving notice of, and conduct of meetings, and the conduct of the
Corporation. Such bylaws, rules and regulations may be amended from time to
time by the Board, provided that any such amendment shall be consistent with
the provisions hereof.
   D.   Meetings, Quorum: A majority of the members of the Board shall
constitute a quorum, and the approval of a majority of a quorum shall be
necessary for the Board to take any action.
   E.   Functions of Board: The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted
and carried out by the Board.
   F.   Compensation, Expenses of Board Members: Members of the Board shall
serve without compensation but with reimbursement of expenses as may be
provided in the bylaws, rules and regulations of the Board.
1-9-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent, employee, or official of the Corporation shall
have a direct or indirect financial interest in any property to be included in,
or any contract for property, service, or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with, any industrial development facility financed through the
Corporation.
1-9-6: FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The County may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the
Corporation except as expressly authorized by the Act. This provision shall not
preclude the County from dealing with the Corporation on an arms-length basis.
   B.   Any net earnings of the Corporation, beyond those necessary for
retirement of indebtedness incurred by it, shall inure to the County and not
for the benefit of any other person. Alteration of the Charter of, or
dissolution of, or audits of the Corporation shall be as provided by the Act
and by subsequent ordinances of the County. Upon dissolution of the
Corporation, title to all property owned by the Corporation shall vest in the
County.
1-9-7: THE CHARTER:
CHARTER OF THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF THE COUNTY OF ADA, STATE
OF IDAHO
ARTICLE I
   NAME, SEAL AND DEFINITIONS
   The name of this public corporation shall be The Industrial Development
Corporation of the County of Ada, State of Idaho. The corporate seal of this
public corporation shall be a circle with the name "The Industrial Development
Corporation of the County of Ada, State of Idaho" inscribed therein. As used in
this Charter, unless otherwise required by context:
   "Act" means title 50, chapter 27, Idaho Code, as amended (the "Act");
   "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
   "Corporation" means The Industrial Development Corporation of the County of
Ada, State of Idaho;
   "Governing Body" means the Board of Ada County Commissioners.
   "Industrial development facilities" means the same as such term means for
the purpose of the Act;
   "Municipality" means the County of Ada, State of Idaho; and
   "Ordinance" means Ordinance No. 129 of the Municipality, passed on the 9th
day of March, 1983, pursuant to which the Corporation is created.
ARTICLE II
   CREATION OF THE CORPORATION AND GRANT OF POWER
   The Corporation is a public corporation organized pursuant to the Act and
the Ordinance. The Corporation is hereby granted all powers authorized by the
Act.
ARTICLE III
   DURATION OF THE CORPORATION
   Unless modified by State law or by an ordinance of the Municipality, the
duration of the Corporation shall be perpetual.
ARTICLE IV
   PURPOSES OF THE CORPORATION
   The purpose of the Corporation is to function as a public corporation
pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Ordinance and to issue tax exempt
nonrecourse revenue bonds to finance industrial development facilities located
within the corporate boundaries of the Municipality. The financing of
industrial development facilities within the corporate boundaries of the
Municipality is for the purpose of promoting higher employment, encouraging the
development of new jobs, maintaining and supplementing the capital investments
in industry that currently exist within the State of Idaho, encouraging future
employment by insuring future capital investments, attracting environmentally
sound industry within the corporate boundaries of the Municipality and to the
State of Idaho, protecting and enhancing the quality of natural resources and
environment, and promoting the production and conservation of energy. This
Charter shall not be construed to limit or restrict the purposes of the Act,
but shall be liberally construed to effect such purposes.
ARTICLE V
   POWERS OF THE CORPORATION
   1. The Corporation shall have all the powers granted to public corporations
by the Act. Such powers include, without limitation, the following powers:
   (a) To locate, construct and maintain one or more industrial development
facilities;
   (b) To lease to a lessee all or any part of any industrial development
facility for such rentals and upon such terms and conditions, including renewal
of the lease or options to purchase, as its Board of Directors considers
advisable and not in conflict with the Act;
   (c) To sell by installment contract or otherwise and convey all or any part
of any industrial development facility for such purchase price and upon such
terms and conditions as its Board of Directors considers advisable which are
not in conflict with the Act;
   (d) To make loans for the purpose of providing temporary or permanent
financing or refinancing of all or part of the project cost of any industrial
development facility, including the refunding of any outstanding obligations,
mortgages, or advances issued, made, or given by any person for the project
costs; and to charge and collect interest on the loans for the loan payments
upon such terms and conditions as its Board of Directors considers advisable
which are not in conflict with the Act;
   (e) To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing all or part of the
project costs of any industrial development facility and to secure the payment
of the revenue bonds as provided in the Act; provided, that issuance of revenue
bonds for facilities pursuant to the Act shall not preclude the issuance of
additional revenue bonds in connection with the same facility, and provided
that any subsequent bond issue shall recognize and protect any prior pledge
made for any prior issue of revenue bonds;
   (f) As security for the payment of the principal of and interest on any
revenue bonds issued and any agreements made in connection therewith, to
mortgage, pledge, or otherwise encumber any or all of its industrial
development facilities or any part or parts thereof, whether then owned or
thereafter acquired, and to assign any mortgage and repledge any security
conveyed to the Corporation, to secure any loan made by the Corporation and to
pledge the revenues and receipts therefrom;
   (g) To sue and be sued, complain, and defend in its corporate name;
   (h) To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient
for the carrying out of its business;
   (i) To have a corporate seal and to use the same by causing it, or a
facsimile thereof, to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner
reproduced;
   (j) Subject to the limitations of section 50-2706, Idaho Code, to borrow
money, accept grants from, or contract with any local, State, or Federal
government agency or with any financial, public, or private corporation;
   (k) To make and alter bylaws not inconsistent with this Charter or the Act
for the administration and regulation of the affairs of the Corporation;
   (l) To collect fees or charges from users or prospective users of industrial
development facilities to recover actual or anticipated administrative costs;
   (m) To execute financing documents incidental to the powers enumerated in
this subsection;
   (n) To have any and all other powers granted to public corporations under
the Act; and
   (o) To adopt resolutions authorizing any of the actions provided for herein.
   2. Revenue bonds issued pursuant to the Act shall bear the seal of the
Corporation, which may either be physically impressed thereon or printed as a
facsimile thereof, and the signature of the President of the Board, or in his
absence and in his stead, the Vice President, and the signature of the
Secretary of the Board, or in his absence and in his stead, the Assistant
Secretary. The signatures may be either manual or facsimile, or a combination
thereof.
ARTICLE VI
   LIMITATIONS ON THE CORPORATION
   1. No part of the net earnings of the Corporation beyond those necessary to
retire indebtedness incurred by it shall inure to the benefit of, or be
distributable to, anyone other than the Municipality. Upon dissolution of the
Corporation, title to all property owned by the Corporation shall vest in the
Municipality.
   2. The Municipality may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the
Corporation except as expressly authorized by the Act. This provision shall not
preclude the Municipality from dealing with the Corporation on an arms-length
basis.
   3. The Corporation may not issue revenue obligations except upon the
approval of the Municipality and upon the planning and zoning approval of the
county or city within whose planning jurisdiction the proposed industrial
development facility lies. The Corporation may not issue revenue obligations
for projects which are partially or entirely located within a city, without the
approval of the city council and the Municipality.
   4. No revenue bonds may be issued by the Corporation unless the Board makes
a finding that in its opinion the interest paid on the bonds will be exempt
from income taxation by the Federal government.
   5. Revenue bonds issued by the Corporation shall not be considered to
constitute a debt of the State of Idaho, of the Municipality, or of any other
municipal corporation, quasi-municipal corporation, subdivision or agency of
the State of Idaho, or to pledge any or all of the faith and credit of any of
these entities.
   6. Revenue bonds issued by the Corporation shall be payable solely from the
revenues derived as a result of the industrial development facilities funded by
the revenue bonds, including, without limitation, amounts received under the
terms of any financing document or by reason of any additional security
furnished by the user of the industrial development facility in connection with
the financing thereof, any money and other property received from private
sources.
   7. Each revenue bond issued by the Corporation shall contain on its face
statements to the effect that:
   (a) Neither the State of Idaho nor the Municipality or any other municipal
corporation, quasi-municipal corporation, subdivision or agency of the State is
obligated to pay the principal or the interest thereon;
   (b) No tax funds or governmental revenue may be used to pay the principal or
interest thereon; and
   (c) Neither any nor all of the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the
State of Idaho, the Municipality or any other municipal corporation, quasi-
municipal corporation, subdivision, or agency thereof is pledged to the payment
of the principal of or the interest on the revenue bond.
   8. The Corporation may incur only those financial obligations which will be
paid from revenue received pursuant to financing documents, from fees or
charges paid by users or prospective users of the industrial development
facilities funded by the revenue bonds, or from the proceeds of revenue bonds.
   9. The Corporation has no power of eminent domain nor any power to levy
taxes or special assessments.
   10. The Corporation has no authority to incur or create any liability that
permits recourse by any contracting party or member of the public to any
assets, services, resources or credit of the Municipality.
   11. The Municipality shall have access to the books and records of the
Corporation at all times.
   12. The Corporation may not operate any industrial development facility as a
business other than as lessor, seller or lender. The purchase and holding of
mortgages, deeds of trust and other security interests, and contracting for any
servicing thereof, is not considered the operation of an industrial development
facility.
   13. The Corporation may not exercise any of the powers authorized in Article
V or issue any revenue bonds with respect to any industrial development
facility unless the industrial development facility is located wholly within
the boundaries of the Municipality, except that energy facilities and solid
waste disposal facilities may be located partially or wholly outside the
boundaries of the Municipality upon approval of the Municipality and planning
and zoning approval by each county or city within whose planning jurisdiction
the proposed industrial development facility lies.
   14. The Corporation shall be subject to all other limitations set forth in
section 50-2706 of the Act, which limitations are hereby incorporated herein by
reference.
ARTICLE VII
   ORGANIZATION OF THE CORPORATION
   1. Management of the affairs of the Corporation shall reside in the Board.
The Board shall be comprised of the members, as provided, and subject to the
exceptions set forth in the Ordinance.
   2. The members of the Board shall elect officers as provided in the
Ordinance. The Board shall oversee the activities of the Corporation, establish
or implement policy, participate in corporate activity as necessary and have
stewardship for management in determination of all corporate affairs.
ARTICLE VIII
   RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF DIRECTORS
   1. No director, officer, agent, employee or official of the Corporation may
have direct or indirect financial interest in any property to be included in or
any contract for property, services or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facility financed through the
Corporation.
   2. Every person who was or is a party to, or is threatened to be made a
party to, or is involved in, any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil,
criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or a
person of whom he is the legal representative is or was a director or officer
of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as
its representative in any other enterprise, shall be indemnified and held
harmless to the fullest extent legally permissible under the laws of the State
of Idaho from time to time against all expense, liability and loss (including
attorneys' fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid or to be paid in
settlement), reasonably incurred or suffered by him in connection therewith.
Such rights of indemnification shall be a contract right which may be enforced
in any manner desired by such person. Such right of indemnification shall not
be exclusive of any other right which such directors, officers, or
representatives may have or hereafter acquire, and without limiting the
generality of such statement, they shall be entitled to their respective rights
of indemnification under any bylaw, agreement, provision of law, or otherwise,
as well as their rights under this Article. The Board may adopt bylaws and/or
rules and regulations from time to time with respect to indemnification to
provide at all times the fullest indemnification permitted by the laws of the
State of Idaho, and may cause the Corporation to purchase and maintain
insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the
Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as its
representative in any partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise,
against any liability asserted against such person and incurred in any such
capacity or arising out of such status, whether or not the Corporation would
have the power to indemnify such person.
ARTICLE IX
   BYLAWS
   The Board of Directors shall adopt bylaws and/or rules and regulations to
provide such rules for governing the Corporation and its activities as are not
inconsistent with the Ordinance, this Charter and the Act. Adoption of bylaws
and rules and regulations and any amendments thereto shall require a majority
vote of the Board. The Board may provide in the bylaws or rules and regulations
for all matters relating to the governance of the Corporation, including but
not limited to matters referred to elsewhere in this Charter for inclusion
therein, and for the following:
   1. The existence of committees and duties of any such committees;
   2. Regular and special meetings of the Board;
   3. Retention of staff or personnel and the relationship between the
Corporation and the Municipality; and
   4. Such other matters as may become necessary or important to the proper
functioning of the Corporation.
ARTICLE X
   AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER
   This Charter may be amended by ordinance of the Municipality.
ARTICLE XI
   COMMENCEMENT OF THE CORPORATION
   The existence of the Corporation shall commence at the time the enactment of
the Ordinance becomes effective. A true and complete copy of this Charter,
certified by the Clerk of the Municipality as being on file with the
Municipality and having been duly issued by the Municipality, together with a
certified copy of the Ordinance, shall be filed in the permanent records of the
Corporation.
ARTICLE XII
   MISCELLANEOUS
   Audits, dissolutions, alterations of this Charter, trusteeships, and other
matters affecting the Corporation shall be in compliance with the provisions of
the Ordinance and the Act.
   DATED This 9th day of March, 1983.
      BOARD OF ADA COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
      By:   Bill Gratton, Chairman
      By:   Vern Emery, Commissioner
      By:   Ed Riddle, Commissioner
ATTEST:
John Bastida, Ada County Clerk
(Ord. 129, 3-9-83)
ARTICLE XIII
   REGISTERED OFFICE AND AGENT OF THE CORPORATION
   1. The location of the registered office of the Corporation and the mailing
address of the Corporation is the County Building, 650 Main Street, Boise,
Idaho 83702. The Corporation may maintain offices at such other locations
within the County of Ada as the Board of Directors may from time to time
decide.
   2. The initial registered agent for the Corporation shall be the President
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, whose mailing address is the
County Building, 650 Main Street, Boise, Idaho 83702.
   Passed and approved this 22nd day of August, 1984.
             /s/ Bill Gratton   
            Chairman, Board of County
(SEAL)            Commissioners of Ada County, Idaho
Attest:             /s/ Vern Emery   
               Vern Emery, Commissioner
/s/ John Bastida
County Clerk, Board of County      
Commissioners, Ada County,   Ed Riddle, Commissioner
Idaho
(Ord. 134, 8-22-84)
1-9-8: RATIFICATION:
   A.   The adoption, passage and approval by the Board of Ada County
Commissioners of Ordinance No. 129, as amended by Ordinance No. 129-1-83 and
Ordinance No. 129-2-83, and as amended and codified by Ordinance 133, is hereby
in all respects fully validated, ratified and confirmed; and Ordinance No. 129,
as so amended and codified, is hereby in all respects fully adopted, passed,
authorized, approved, validated, ratified and confirmed and is in full force
and effect, all as and from April 9, 1983, the date of the publication of
Ordinance No. 129 in The Idaho Statesman , and June 10, 1983, September 12,
1983, and July 27, 1984, the respective dates of the publication of Ordinance
No. 129-1-83, Ordinance No. 129-2-83 and Ordinance No. 133 in The Idaho
Statesman . Such publications are hereby in all respects fully authorized,
approved, validated, ratified and confirmed as and from the respective dates of
such publications.
   B.   The adoption, passage and approval by the Board of Ada County
Commissioners of Resolution No. 378 is hereby in all respects fully validated,
ratified and confirmed; and resolution 378 is hereby in all respects fully
adopted, passed, authorized, approved, validated, ratified and confirmed and is
in full force and effect, all as of June 15, 1983.
   C.   The adoption, passage and approval by the board of Ada County
commissioners of resolution 395 is hereby in all respects fully validated,
ratified and confirmed; and resolution 395 is hereby in all respects fully
adopted, passed, authorized, approved, validated, ratified and confirmed and is
in full force and effect, all as of April 9, 1984.
   D.   All acts heretofore performed by or on behalf of the board of Ada
County commissioners pursuant to ordinance 129, as amended, and all acts
heretofore performed by the corporation, are hereby in all respects fully
authorized, approved, validated, ratified and confirmed, all as of and from the
respective dates of the performance of such acts.
   E.   The board of Ada County commissioners hereby finds, determines and
declares that pursuant to the provisions of the act and ordinance 129, the de
jure and de facto existence of the corporation commenced on April 9, 1984, the
date of publication of ordinance 129. (Ord. 134, 8-22-1984)
CHAPTER 10
ADVISORY COMMITTEES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 566, 11-2-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 81-1-79, 8-1-1979; Ord. 88, 11-8-1979.
ARTICLE A. HISTORIC PRESERVATION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 566, 11-2-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 192, 8-25-1988; Ord. 287, 2-9-1995; Ord.
  385, 11-17-1999.
CHAPTER 11
AT WILL EMPLOYEES
(Rep. by Ord. 654, 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 12
REGULAR MEETING TIMES 1
SECTION:
1-12-1: Statement Of Purpose
1-12-2: Regular Meeting Times And Places
1-12-3: Monday Meeting General Topics
1-12-4: Tuesday Meeting General Topics
1-12-5: Wednesday Meeting General Topics
1-12-6: Thursday Meeting General Topics
1-12-7: Friday Meeting General Topics
1-12-8: Additional Meetings Held During Board Of Equalization
1-12-9: Joint Meetings With Incorporated Cities On Zoning Issues In Areas Of
Impact
1-12-10: Additional Meetings Allowed
1-12-11: Conflicting Ordinances And Resolutions Repealed
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 207, 8-17-1989; Ord. 250, 6-29-1992.
1-12-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The Board of Ada County Commissioners has determined that County business
requires public meetings be held more often than once per month. The Board has
further determined that these meetings should be held at the most convenient
times for the general public to attend. The purpose of this chapter is to
establish additional days and times for the conduct of County business in
accordance with Idaho Code sections 31-710(1) and 74-204. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992;
amd. Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-1995; amd. Ord. 890, 10-9-
2018)
1-12-2: REGULAR MEETING TIMES AND PLACES:
Regular meetings of the Board of Ada County Commissioners shall be held Mondays
at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or as soon thereafter as the Board may convene, in
the Commissioners' Conference Room at 200 W. Front Street, Boise, Idaho, and
continue until the business then before the Board has been completed; Tuesdays
at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or as soon thereafter as the Board may convene, in
the Commissioners' Conference Room at 200 W. Front Street, Boise, Idaho, and
continue until the business then before the Board has been completed;
Wednesdays at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or as soon thereafter as the Board may
convene, in the Commissioners' Conference Room at 200 W. Front Street, Boise,
Idaho, and then at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. or as soon thereafter as the Board
may convene, in the County Public Hearing Room 200 W. Front Street, Boise,
Idaho, unless otherwise posted, and continue until the business then before the
Board has been completed but if business before the Board cannot be completed
at a decent hour the Board may continue the business before it to a date and
time certain; Thursdays at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or as soon thereafter as
the Board may convene, in the Commissioners' Conference Room at 200 W. Front
Street, Boise, Idaho, and continue until the business then before the Board has
been concluded; and Fridays at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or as soon thereafter
as the Board may convene, in the Commissioners' Conference Room at 200 W. Front
Street, Boise, Idaho, and continue until the business then before the Board has
been concluded. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992; amd. Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord.
286, 2-9-1995; amd. Ord. 548, 6-15-2004)
1-12-3: MONDAY MEETING GENERAL TOPICS:
Monday regular meetings shall commence with an executive session if required,
and shall continue with such other business as shall lawfully come before the
Board. (Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-1995)
1-12-4: TUESDAY MEETING GENERAL TOPICS:
The Tuesday regular meeting shall commence with routine deliberation and action
on documents and expenditures such as, but not limited to, the County warrant
register, contracts submitted in the normal course of business, Assessor's
changes and rebates, licenses, resolutions, and ordinances, and shall
thereafter include an executive session, if required, for requesting legal
advice from the County's attorneys, and, at the conclusion of the executive
session, the open meeting shall continue for the purpose of discussing and
determining other matters of County business with the County's department heads
and elected officials and shall then conclude with such other business as shall
lawfully come before the Board. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992; amd. Ord. 251-1-93, 11-
18-1993; amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-1995; amd. Ord. 890, 10-9-2018)
1-12-5: WEDNESDAY MEETING GENERAL TOPICS:
Wednesday's regular meeting shall include an executive session, if required,
for the purpose of deliberating and deciding indigency matters, and shall then
continue until six o'clock (6:00) P.M. with such other business as shall
lawfully come before the Board. At six o'clock (6:00) P.M., the Board shall
hear Local Planning Act matters and shall thereafter continue with such other
matters as shall lawfully come before the Board. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992; amd.
Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-1995; amd. Ord. 890, 10-9-2018)
1-12-6: THURSDAY MEETING GENERAL TOPICS:
Thursday's regular meeting shall commence with an executive session, if
required, and shall then continue with such other business as shall lawfully
come before the Board. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992; amd. Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993;
amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-1995)
1-12-7: FRIDAY MEETING GENERAL TOPICS:
Friday regular meetings shall commence with an executive session, if required,
and shall continue with such other business as shall lawfully come before the
Board. (Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-1995)
1-12-8: ADDITIONAL MEETINGS HELD DURING BOARD OF EQUALIZATION:
In order to accommodate Board of Equalization hearings from the fourth Monday
in June until the second Monday in July, the Board of Ada County Commissioners
will hold additional regular meetings, by appointment only, on Mondays
commencing at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. or as soon thereafter as the Board may
convene, in the County Public Hearing Room, 200 W. Front Street, Boise, Idaho,
and continuing until the matters then before the Board have been concluded; and
Fridays commencing at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or as soon thereafter as the
Board may convene, in the County Public Hearing Room, 200 W. Front Street,
Boise, Idaho, and continuing until the matters then before the Board have been
concluded. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992; amd. Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord. 286,
2-9-1995; amd. Ord. 548, 6-15-2004)
1-12-9: JOINT MEETINGS WITH INCORPORATED CITIES ON ZONING ISSUES IN AREAS OF
IMPACT:
All Local Planning Act matters affecting land inside the area of impact of an
incorporated city within Ada County shall be scheduled to coincide with the
evening hearings of the affected incorporated entity. All meetings shall be
held at the regularly scheduled times and place of the incorporated city
involved in the Local Planning Act matter. (Ord. 286, 2-9-1995)
1-12-10: ADDITIONAL MEETINGS ALLOWED:
The Board of Ada County Commissioners shall retain the power to call such other
meetings as from time to time may be needed as authorized by the Open Meetings
Act. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992; amd. Ord. 251-1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-
1995)
1-12-11: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS REPEALED:
Any resolutions, acts, or ordinances contrary to this chapter are hereby
rescinded or repealed, as the case may be. (Ord. 251, 8-18-1992; amd. Ord. 251-
1-93, 11-18-1993; amd. Ord. 286, 2-9-1995)
CHAPTER 13
PROPERTY TAXES
SECTION:
1-13-1: Payment Of Late Charge And Interest On Excess Taxes Collected Due To
Error By The County
1-13-2: Dry Grazing Land
1-13-3: Minimum Investment Amount Necessary To Qualify For The Business Tax
Exemption
1-13-1: PAYMENT OF LATE CHARGE AND INTEREST ON EXCESS TAXES COLLECTED DUE TO
ERROR BY THE COUNTY:
In any case, after the fourth Monday in June, in which the Board finds that due
to error or otherwise by fault of the County, an excess amount of tax was paid,
the Board may refund the excess amount, plus pay the same late charge and
interest, on that amount which the County would regularly require of a taxpayer
who is delinquent, under the conditions outlined in Idaho Code 63-1302, for a
period of no greater than three (3) years for real property and for a period of
no greater than one (1) year for personal property. (Ord. 262, 4-15-1993, eff.
7-1-1993; amd. Ord. 435, 9-11-2001, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2001; Ord. 907, 2-
3-2020)
1-13-2: DRY GRAZING LAND:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to exempt from Meridian Rural
Dire District tax levy the unimproved real property being all dry grazing land
as identified by Ada County Assessor assessment category no. 050 within the
Meridian Rural Fire District as authorized by Idaho Code sections 31-1420A and
31-1422 and as recommended and applied for by the Meridian Rural Fire District
Commissioners.
   B.   Dry Grazing Land Exempted From Taxation: All dry grazing land as
identified by Ada County Assessor assessment category no. 050 within the
Meridian Rural Fire District is exempted from Meridian Rural Fire District tax
levy as allowed under Idaho Code sections 31-1420A and 31-1422. (Ord. 359, 6-
24-1998)
1-13-3: MINIMUM INVESTMENT AMOUNT NECESSARY TO QUALIFY FOR THE BUSINESS TAX
EXEMPTION:
   A.   Per Idaho Code section 63-602NN(2)(g), the minimum investment amount
for plant investment at project sites within Ada County, Idaho is set at a
minimum threshold of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00); and
   B.   Those seeking a Property Tax exemption under Idaho Code section 63-
602NN must still meet the other requirements of that section in order to be
granted the Property Tax exemption. (Ord. 876, 12-19-2017)
CHAPTER 14
HEARING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Definitions
1-14-3: Submission Of A Proposed Decision
1-14-4: Conduct Of Hearing
1-14-5: Record
1-14-6: Reopening The Record
1-14-7: Decision By The Board
1-14-8: Applicability
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide a procedure by which the board
shall conduct hearings in personnel, medical indigency, and other matters
which, by federal, state, or county law, require the receipt of evidence,
whether testimony, documents, or otherwise, and a response from the board in
the form of a written decision based on the record. (Ord. 293, 5-24-1995; amd.
Ord. 683, 1-23-2008)
1-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, words shall have the following meanings:
APPLICANT/APPELLANT: The person or entity seeking a decision from the board.
BOARD: The board of Ada County commissioners.
STAFF: Any Ada County officer or employee present during the hearing. (Ord.
293, 5-24-1995)
1-14-3: SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSED DECISION:
The board encourages any interested party to a hearing before the board to
submit a brief synopsis of the matter, argument, and a proposed decision
(including findings of fact and conclusions of law, if applicable). Any
synopsis, argument or proposed decision must be received by and lodged with the
board prior to commencement of the hearing. Failure to submit documents
contemplated hereunder shall not prejudice an interested party. (Ord. 293, 5-
24-1995)
1-14-4: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
Hearings before the board shall be conducted in general conformance with the
following procedure:
   A.   Generally: The board may require any person who will testify at a
hearing to be sworn in before testifying. The board may limit testimony and
scope of the hearing as necessary. The board, or its designee, if any, may at
any time during the hearing freely inquire of anyone at the hearing, including
staff.
   B.   Report: Hearings before the board shall commence with a report from
staff. The report may be written or oral, at the pleasure of the board, and may
include testimony from witnesses. The report shall contain recommendations and
a proposed decision for the board's review, including proposed findings of fact
and conclusions of law in a form directed by the board for such matters, if
any. The board shall not be bound by the recommendations of staff.
   C.   Applicant/Appellant Comments: At the conclusion of staff's comments, if
any, the applicant/appellant, and those favoring the applicant's/appellant's
position shall be allowed an opportunity to present testimony, documents, and
other evidence which supports his or her position. An applicant/appellant may
be represented by counsel. Except as provided in subsection E of this section,
at the board's discretion, testimony for and against an application may be
presented in rotating order.
   D.   Opponent And General Comments: When the applicant/appellant has
concluded his or her comments, those opposing the applicant's/appellant's
position or having general questions shall be provided an opportunity to
present testimony, documents, or other evidence refuting the evidence presented
on behalf of the applicant/appellant.
   E.   Applicant/Appellant Rebuttal: When the opponents, if any, have all
concluded their comments, the applicant/appellant shall be allowed a brief
period for rebuttal. (Ord. 293, 5-24-1995; amd. Ord. 788, 8-16-2011)
1-14-5: RECORD:
The staff report shall automatically become part of the record as shall any
documents submitted by the applicant/appellant or any opponents, as shall all
testimony given at the hearing. At conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall
close the record unless the Board determines, in its discretion, additional
evidence is required, in which event, it may proceed as follows: close the
record with the exception of allowing the submission of specifically requested
information, leave the entire record open for the submission of additional
evidence to a date certain at which time it will automatically be closed
without further action of the Board, or continue the hearing to a date certain
for the purpose of receiving additional evidence and conducting such further
proceedings as may, in its discretion, be advisable. (Ord. 293, 5-24-95)
1-14-6: REOPENING THE RECORD:
Prior to issuing a written decision, the Board may, for good cause
demonstrated, reopen the record for the purpose of receiving additional
evidence. An interested party may seek to reopen the record by filing a timely
motion to reopen the proceedings containing information therein to demonstrate
good cause and paying any costs which will be incurred by the County to comply
with applicable law. The Board shall decide an applicant/appellant's motion to
reopen the record within five (5) days of the receipt thereof. The Board may,
within the time allowed herein, reopen the record for good cause on its own
motion. If the Board determines to reopen the record, it shall thereafter
comply with applicable law, if any, governing notice and hearings. (Ord. 293,
5-24-95)
1-14-7: DECISION BY THE BOARD:
When the record has been closed, the Board shall take the matter under
advisement for the purpose of deliberating towards a decision based on the
record. After deliberating, the Board may then immediately render a written
decision complying with applicable law or may continue the matter to a date and
time certain for further deliberation and decision. Provided, if the matter is
continued, the Board shall render a written decision within thirty (30) days,
unless a shorter period is provided by law, in which case the shorter period
shall apply. The Board shall deliberate and make decisions at meetings which
comply with the Open Meeting Act, Idaho Code section 67-2340, et seq., as it
may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 293, 5-24-95)
1-14-8: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter shall apply to any matter currently pending for which no hearing
has been held and to all other qualifying matters hereafter considered by the
Board. (Ord. 293, 5-24-95)
CHAPTER 15
LOST AND FOUND PROPERTY ON ADA COUNTY PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-15-1: Money And Property Valued At One Hundred Dollars Or More
1-15-2: Money And Property Valued At Less Than One Hundred Dollars
1-15-3: Procedure For Handling Money And Property Given To Ada County
1-15-1: MONEY AND PROPERTY VALUED AT ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS OR MORE:
All employees of Ada County and all persons on property owned by Ada County
shall comply with the terms of Idaho Code section 55-405 when he or she finds
money or goods valued at one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more. (Ord. 626, 6-
27-2006)
1-15-2: MONEY AND PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of law and any item needed for evidentiary
purposes, any person who finds money or goods on county property valued at less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00), excepting firearms, explosives or other
deadly weapons as identified in chapter 33, title 18, Idaho Code, shall, if the
owner of the money or goods is unknown, give such money or goods to the office
of an elected official of Ada County, an Ada County department, or the
information desk in the lobby of the courthouse and administration building.
(Ord. 626, 6-27-2006)
1-15-3: PROCEDURE FOR HANDLING MONEY AND PROPERTY GIVEN TO ADA COUNTY:
   A.   Each elected official and the supervisor of every Ada County department
shall keep a written record of all money and goods found.
   B.   Each elected official of Ada County and the supervisor of every Ada
County department shall monthly send the money given to Ada County pursuant to
section
1-15-2 of this chapter found to the county treasurer who shall hold the money
for the owner. If no person establishes ownership of the money given to Ada
County prior to the expiration of three (3) months from the date the money was
given to Ada County, such money shall be placed in the general fund of the
county for payment of the general operating expenses of the county.
   C.   Each elected official of Ada County and each Ada County department
shall store, or send to the information desk in the lobby of the courthouse and
administration building for storage, any goods given to it pursuant to section
1-15-2 of this chapter for a minimum of thirty (30) days if the value is
estimated to be less than twenty five dollars ($25.00). If the estimated value
is more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) the goods shall be kept for a minimum
of three (3) months. At the end of such period of time, if the goods can be
used by the county, each elected official or head of an Ada County department
may designate the property as county property and use it for county purposes.
   D.   If the goods cannot be used for county purposes and the elected
official or the department head of an Ada County department and the sheriff
agree that such goods are appropriate for sale, then the goods shall be
delivered to the sheriff and sold at public auction. The proceeds of the sale
of such goods shall be applied first to the costs of the sale and the remainder
shall be placed in the general fund of the county for the payment of the
general operating expenses of the county.
   E.   If the elected official or head of an Ada County department determines
that the goods cannot be used by the county and should not be sold by the
sheriff, the elected official or head of an Ada County department shall cause
the goods to be destroyed, disposed of, or sold to a nonprofit charity for a
cost determined by the board of county commissioners to be in the best interest
of the county.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the provisions of
chapter 5, title 14, Idaho Code or Idaho Code section 55-405. (Ord. 626, 6-27-
2006)
TITLE 2
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 1
STREET NAMING AND ADDRESS NUMBERING
SECTION:
2-1-1: Short Title, Purpose And Applicability
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Delegation And Rescission Of Authority
2-1-4: Approvals Required
2-1-5: Assessor's Street Name And Address Database; Public Access
2-1-6: Naming New Streets
2-1-7: Naming Existing Unnamed Streets
2-1-8: Changing Existing Street Names
2-1-9: Street Naming Standards
2-1-10: Street Signs
2-1-11: Assigning New Addresses
2-1-12: Changing Existing Addresses
2-1-13: Addressing Standards
2-1-14: Posting Addresses
2-1-15: Variances And Appeals
2-1-16: Fees
2-1-17: Violations And Penalties
2-1-1: SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY UNIFORM STREET NAMING AND ADDRESS
NUMBERING ORDINANCE, and is adopted for the purpose of providing a standardized
system of street names and addresses to enable efficient location, navigation,
and delivery of public services within the county, particularly with the
countywide 911 program. This chapter shall apply to all lands within the
unincorporated areas of Ada County except the Boise City area of impact. (Ord.
853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACHD: The Ada County highway district.
ADDRESS: The combination of an address number and street name that identifies a
dwelling, structure, business, industry or property.
ADDRESS NUMBER: The number assigned to a dwelling, structure, business,
industry or property that is expected to be displayed upon the structure or
property for the purpose of identification to emergency service providers and
the U.S. postal service, among others.
ASSESSOR'S STREET NAME AND ADDRESS DATABASE: A database to archive streets,
street names, addressing grids, and assigned addresses within Ada County which
have received official recognition by the board, county assessor, or a city
council.
BOARD: The board of Ada County commissioners.
CIRCULAR STREET: A street that travels in a loop and begins and ends at a
common intersection.
COUNTY ASSESSOR: The duly elected county officer pursuant to article XVIII,
section 6, of the Idaho constitution.
CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street that has a turnaround at its terminus.
PLAT: A subdivision or condominium plat.
POSTTYPE: A label added after a street name to designate the street type.
PREDIRECTION: A directional label added before a street name to indicate the
street's direction of travel and its location in relation to the initial point
of the address grid.
PRIVATE ROAD: For the purposes of this chapter, this term includes both
privately owned and maintained roads approved pursuant to title 8, chapter 4,
article D of this code or by a city council, and private driveways which
provide access to two (2) or more addressed structures or properties.
STREET: A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, right of way, or alley that
provides vehicular access. For the purposes of this chapter, unless specified
otherwise, this term includes public streets as well as private roads. (Ord.
853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-3: DELEGATION AND RESCISSION OF AUTHORITY:
The board hereby delegates both responsibility and authority for implementing
this chapter to the county assessor. The board reserves, at its sole discretion
and for any reason, the right to withdraw this delegation at any time and for
any period of time as the board chooses. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-4: APPROVALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Approval shall be obtained from the county assessor according to the
requirements of this chapter for:
      1.   The right to use a street name and its accompanying predirection and
posttype. No sign designating any street may be erected until such approval is
obtained.
      2.   The right to use an address or address number for a dwelling,
structure, business, industry or property. No address number may be posted
until such approval is obtained. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-5: ASSESSOR'S STREET NAME AND ADDRESS DATABASE; PUBLIC ACCESS:
   A.   The county assessor shall maintain the assessor's street name and
address database to archive approved streets, street names, addressing grids,
and addresses within Ada County.
   B.   Whenever a street name or address is added or modified in accordance
with this chapter, the county assessor shall update the database to reflect the
addition or modification.
   C.   The database shall be made available for access by the public at
reasonable times and in a manner prescribed by the county assessor. (Ord. 853,
3-22-2016)
2-1-6: NAMING NEW STREETS:
   A.   Application:
      1.   Applications to name new streets may only be submitted in
conjunction with a development application, such as for a subdivision,
condominium or private road.
      2.   Applications may only be submitted by the property owner listed on
the associated development application, their authorized representative or a
government agency.
      3.   An application to name a new street shall contain the following:
         a.   A completed application form, furnished by the county assessor.
         b.   A map or plan which accurately depicts the location and names of
existing and proposed streets. If the application is associated with a proposed
subdivision or condominium, a copy of the preliminary plat must be submitted.
         c.   If the application is associated with a new private road, a copy
of the private road application must be included.
   B.   Application Review:
      1.   The county assessor shall review proposed street names for
conformance with the requirements of this chapter and shall grant preliminary
approval for applications that are found to be in compliance.
      2.   As part of the review process, the county assessor shall forward the
application to certain agencies for review, and those agencies shall be given
ten (10) business days to provide comment on the application's compliance with
this chapter and the agency's standards. The county assessor shall consider
these comments in determining whether to approve or deny an application.
Applications must be sent to the following agencies for review: ACHD, Ada
County sheriff dispatch, the fire department responsible for properties
accessed by the subject street, and if the street is within an incorporated
city or city impact area, that city's planning department or another
appropriate department if there is no planning department.
      3.   The county assessor shall notify the applicant of the results of the
review. If an application is denied, the reasons for denial shall be provided.
   C.   Preliminary Approval:
      1.   Upon granting preliminary approval for a proposed street name, the
county assessor shall reserve the street name for the exclusive use of the
applicant, pending final approval of the associated development application.
      2.   Preliminary approval shall be rescinded for the following reasons,
in which case the applicant must reapply to use the street name:
         a.   The applicant changes the layout of a proposed street after
preliminary approval.
         b.   Final development approval is not obtained within twenty four
(24) months of preliminary street name approval.
         c.   Another development application receives final approval before
the applicant's development, and that development's street names or layout
cause the applicant's proposed names to be out of compliance with this chapter.
   D.   Final Approval:
      1.   If no circumstances require that the applicant's preliminary
approval be rescinded, final approval of the street name is granted
automatically with final approval of the associated development application.
(Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-7: NAMING EXISTING UNNAMED STREETS:
   A.   The county assessor shall follow the procedures provided in section
2-1-6 of this chapter for the naming of existing unnamed streets, except for
the following:
      1.   Street name applications are not required to be submitted in
conjunction with a development application.
      2.   If a street name application is not associated with a development
application, the preliminary approval process does not apply. If it is
determined during application review that an application meets all applicable
requirements, the county assessor shall grant final approval for the street
name. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-8: CHANGING EXISTING STREET NAMES:
   A.   Public Hearing Required: Existing street names may only be changed by
an affirmative action of the board at a public hearing, except for the
correction of scrivener's errors as provided in this section.
   B.   Initiation Of Change:
      1.   The county assessor or another public agency may request a street
name change if the current name is not in compliance with this chapter and/or
the current name negatively impacts public safety or the delivery of public
services.
      2.   An owner of property along a street may request that street name be
changed by filing an application with the county assessor. In order for the
application to be considered, the property owner must first obtain approval for
the change from seventy five percent (75%) of the property owners along the
subject street.
   C.   Application: A street name change application shall contain the
following:
      1.   A completed application form, furnished by the county assessor.
      2.   A map or plan which accurately depicts the location and names of
existing and proposed streets.
      3.   An explanation of the reasons for the requested name change.
      4.   A list of the names and addresses of the consenting seventy five
percent (75%) of property owners.
   D.   Application Review:
      1.   The county assessor shall review proposed street names for
conformance with the requirements of this chapter and shall schedule a board
hearing for applications that are found to be in compliance.
      2.   As part of the review process, the county assessor shall forward the
application to certain agencies for review, and those agencies shall be given
ten (10) business days to provide comment on the application's compliance with
this chapter and the agency's standards. The county assessor shall consider
these comments in determining whether to approve or deny an application for a
board hearing. Applications must be sent to the following agencies for review:
ACHD, Ada County sheriff dispatch, the fire department responsible for
properties accessed by the subject street, and if the street is within an
incorporated city or city impact area, that city's planning department or
another appropriate department if there is no planning department.
      3.   The county assessor shall notify the applicant of the results of the
review. If an application is denied, the reasons for denial shall be provided.
   E.   Notice Of Public Hearing: All owners of property along the subject
street shall be notified by mail of the public hearing at least thirty (30)
days before the hearing. The notice shall include the reason for the change and
information about the board hearing.
   F.   Effective Date: Upon an affirmative action by the board, a street name
change shall become effective sixty (60) days after the date of the board's
decision.
   G.   Notice Of Change: The county assessor shall mail notices of a street
name change to affected property owners within seven (7) days of the board's
decision. The county assessor shall notify certain public agencies of a street
name change within thirty (30) days of the board's decision. Notice shall be
provided to affected agencies, as determined by the county assessor, including
public health and safety agencies, the United States postal service and utility
companies.
   H.   Subsequent Address Changes: After a street name change, the county
assessor shall change the addresses of any affected structures or properties to
reflect the new street name, according to the requirements of this chapter.
   I.   Correcting Scrivener's Errors:
      1.   In the event a plat is recorded with a scrivener's error, including,
but not limited to, a misspelled street name or an incorrect or missing
predirectional or posttype, the county assessor may correct the street name by
filing an affidavit of street name change with the county recorder.
      2.   The county assessor shall mail a notice of the filing of the street
name change affidavit to all owners of property along the subject street at
least fourteen (14) days prior to recordation.
      3.   If, as determined by the county assessor, the incorrect street name
is significantly different in spelling or pronunciation from the correct name
and the incorrect name is already in public use, the street name change
affidavit must be approved by the board at a public hearing prior to
recordation. The county assessor shall send notice per subsection E of this
section prior to the hearing. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-9: STREET NAMING STANDARDS:
   A.   Street names shall conform to the following standards:
      1.   Any street, whether public or private, that provides access to two
(2) or more addressed structures or properties must be officially named
according to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Every street name shall include a predirectional of North, South,
East, or West, based on the street's direction of travel and its location
relative to the initial point of the addressing grid in which it lies.
      3.   A street's predirectional shall not change even if the street's
direction changes. Streets that meander or are diagonal relative to the
cardinal directions shall be treated as either a north-south or east-west
street and the most appropriate predirection shall be used along the entire
length of the street.
      4.   Every street name shall include one of the following posttypes:
         a.   Avenue: A north-south street generally running in a straight
line.
         b.   Boulevard: A street that is eighty feet (80') wide or greater and
which directional travel is separated by a raised median which is usually
landscaped. The use of this term must be approved by ACHD.
         c.   Court: An east-west cul-de-sac.
         d.   Drive: A street generally meandering in an east-west direction.
         e.   Lane: A private road. Any street which will not be dedicated to
ACHD or another public entity is considered a private road and must be assigned
this posttype.
         f.   Place: A north-south cul-de-sac.
         g.   Road: A street which extends through both urban and rural areas.
The use of this term must be approved by ACHD.
         h.   Street: An east-west street generally running in a straight line.
         i.   Way: A street generally meandering in a north-south direction.
      5.   Street names shall not be more than thirteen (13) characters in
length, including spaces, except for when an existing street with a
nonconforming name is to be extended.
      6.   Street names shall not contain the words North, South, East or West
or any combination thereof. These shall only be used as predirectionals.
      7.   Proposed street names shall not duplicate existing names in spelling
or pronunciation. Differentiation between existing and proposed names shall not
be accomplished by changes in spelling or by the use of different
predirectionals or posttypes.
      8.   Proposed street names shall not sound alike or be easily confused
with existing street names as determined by the county assessor.
      9.   Proposed street names shall not be vulgar or profane as determined
by the county assessor.
      10.   Where a proposed street is in general alignment with an existing
street and is determined by the county assessor to be a continuation of that
street, the existing street's name shall be continued to the proposed street.
For a proposed street to be considered a continuation of an existing street,
all of the following must be true:
         a.   Future development will likely extend the proposed street and/or
the existing street segments and cause them to connect or cause them to be less
than one mile apart;
         b.   Assigning the existing street name to the proposed street will
not negatively impact the public safety or the delivery of public services;
         c.   The segments are separated by one hundred fifty feet (150') or
less as measured perpendicularly to the direction of travel;
         d.   The segments are not situated in a manner that would cause
duplication of address numbers across the segments.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2064.jpg]
 
      11.   Where a proposed street connects or aligns with two (2) differently
named streets, the county assessor shall determine which existing name will be
used giving consideration to the streets' lengths, classifications, usage, and
the number of residents affected.
      12.   Where a proposed street aligns with an existing street which has an
incorrect posttype, the proposed street shall be named with the correct
posttype.
      13.   A cul-de-sac that has a length of one hundred feet (100') or less
shall be given the same name and posttype as the street from which it emerges.
A cul-de-sac greater than one hundred feet (100') in length shall be given a
different name than the street from which it emerges.
      14.   If a street makes a very obvious change in direction, as determined
by the county assessor, a new street name shall be assigned, except as herein
provided for "L" shaped streets. The change in name shall occur as close as
possible to the point where the direction changes.
      15.   Both portions of an "L" shaped street shall be assigned the same
name if either leg is one hundred feet (100') or less in length, otherwise each
leg shall be assigned a different name. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-10: STREET SIGNS:
   A.   All street name signs shall be installed and maintained in conformance
with ACHD standards as well as the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
(MUTCD).
   B.   Installation and maintenance of street signs for private roads is the
responsibility of the applicant or property owner. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-11: ASSIGNING NEW ADDRESSES:
   A.   Assignment By County Assessor: The county assessor shall assign new
addresses to the following in accordance with the requirements of this chapter:
      1.   New structures, modified or previously unaddressed structures, and
undeveloped land in conjunction with a building permit application, upon
application being made by the property owner, the owner's authorized
representative or a government agency.
      2.   Undeveloped subdivision lots after final plat recordation.
   B.   Application Requirements: Requests for address assignment must be
submitted to the county assessor in writing along with a map or site plan which
depicts the structure or property to be addressed, any other structures on the
property and the layout of nearby streets.
   C.   Effective Immediately: Newly assigned addresses shall be effective
immediately. The assessor shall notify affected property owners of the new
addresses within seven (7) days of assignment. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-12: CHANGING EXISTING ADDRESSES:
   A.   Reasons: The county assessor may change existing addresses for the
following reasons:
      1.   An existing address is not in compliance with this chapter;
      2.   To correct duplicate addresses;
      3.   When a street name has been changed;
      4.   An existing address negatively impacts the dispatch of emergency
vehicles or delivery of public services;
      5.   An existing address will cause addresses for future development to
not be in compliance with this chapter.
   B.   When Hearing And Approval Required: When five (5) or more related
address changes are necessary, a hearing and approval by the board is required.
   C.   Notice: The county assessor shall mail notice to affected property
owners at least thirty (30) days before changing an address or before the board
hearing if required. For an address change made by the county assessor, the
notice shall include the reason for the change and information on the property
owner's right to appeal. For changes requiring a board hearing, the notice
shall include the reason for the change and information about the board
hearing.
   D.   Effective Date: An address change shall take effect sixty (60) days
after the county assessor or the board takes action to change the address.
   E.   Notice Of Change: The county assessor shall mail notice to affected
property owners within seven (7) days of an address change. The county assessor
shall notify certain public agencies within thirty (30) days of the action to
change an address. Notice shall be provided to affected agencies, as determined
by the county assessor, including public health and safety agencies, the United
States postal service and utility companies. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-13: ADDRESSING STANDARDS:
   A.   Address Districts: There are four (4) address districts within Ada
County: the Boise, Meridian, Eagle and Kuna districts. The official boundaries
of each district are stored in the assessor's street name and address database.
   B.   Initial Points: Each address district has an initial point which
designates the starting point of the district's address grid. Initial points
for each district are located as follows:
      1.   Boise: The intersection of West Main Street, East Warm Springs
Avenue and North First Street in Boise.
      2.   Eagle: Near the intersection of State Street and Eagle Road in
Eagle.
      3.   Kuna: Near the intersection of East Avalon Street, North Linder
Avenue and South Swan Falls Road in Kuna.
      4.   Meridian: The intersection of Franklin Road and Meridian Road in
Meridian.
   C.   Address Grids: Each address district is divided into a grid which shall
be used to assign addresses within the district. Each grid consists of grid
blocks which generally align with the public land survey system (PLSS). For
each PLSS section in the district there shall be sixteen (16) rows and sixteen
(16) columns of grid blocks which are approximately three hundred thirty feet
(330') square. Address numbering within a district shall begin at the
district's initial point and shall increase in increments of one hundred (100)
address numbers per grid block, expanding outward from the initial point.
   D.   Accessed By Approved Street Or Road: Addresses shall only be assigned
when the structure or lot can be accessed by an approved public street or named
private road that is recorded in the assessor's street name and address
database.
   E.   Numbers Reserved: Address numbers shall be assigned in such a manner
that adequate numbers are reserved for possible future development.
   F.   Numbers Only: Address numbers shall only contain numbers. Use of
letters, fractions or hyphens is prohibited.
   G.   Address Number Parity: Address numbers located on the north and east
sides of a street shall be even numbers. Address numbers located on the south
and west sides of a street shall be odd numbers. The same parity shall be
maintained along the entire length of the street regardless of changes in
direction. For diagonal and meandering streets, parity shall be determined
based on the predirectional of the street's name.
   H.   Structures: If a structure is located on a lot which fronts only one
street, the structure shall be addressed to that street. If a structure is
located on a lot which fronts multiple streets, the structure shall be
addressed to the street where the main entrance of the structure faces unless,
as determined by the county assessor, special circumstances exist where
following this standard would negatively impact public safety or the delivery
of public services.
   I.   Subdivision Lots: Addresses shall be assigned to all new subdivision
lots based on the most likely location of a future structure's main entrance,
as determined by the county assessor. This address may be changed at the time
of construction, if necessary to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
Unbuildable subdivision lots, such as landscape buffers and small common lots,
are exempt from this requirement.
   J.   Unit Numbers: When a structure has individual units which require
designation with separate addresses, unit numbers shall be assigned. First
floor units shall be assigned 100-series numbers, second floor units shall be
assigned 200-series numbers, and so on for each successive floor. Basement
units shall be assigned 10-series numbers, and so on by floor.
   K.   Building Numbers: When a complex consisting of more than one structure
has been assigned a single address, each individual building shall be assigned
a letter.
   L.   Cul-De-Sacs: For cul-de-sacs over one hundred feet (100') in length,
parity shall be maintained along the length of the street with the odd and even
numbering meeting at the midpoint of the back of the cul-de-sac or as close to
the midpoint as possible (see figure below). For cul-de-sacs under one hundred
feet (100'), the cul-de-sac street shall be considered part of the principal
street from which it emerged and shall be addressed according to the address
numbering sequence and parity of the principal street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2030.jpg]
 
   M.   Circular Streets: The same address parity shall be maintained along the
entire length of a circular street. Parity shall be determined by considering
the appropriate address numbering of the street if it were laid out in a
straight line along the direction of its predirectional.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2036.jpg]
 
   N.   Mobile Home Parks/Private Campuses: Mobile home parks and private
campuses shall be assigned a single address along the street where the driveway
access is located. Then, for mobile home parks each space shall be assigned a
space number, for private campuses each building shall be assigned a building
number. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-14: POSTING ADDRESSES:
   A.   The owner of a dwelling, structure, business, industry or property
shall post the assigned address number on the structure or property in such a
manner as to be clearly visible from the street. The posted address number
shall:
      1.   Consist of arabic numerals or English alphabetic letters;
      2.   Be at least four inches (4") in height with a minimum stroke width
of one-half inch (0.5") and contrast with their background;
      3.   Be located at least three feet (3') above grade. (Ord. 853, 3-22-
2016)
2-1-15: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
   A.   Variance: The requirements of this chapter may be varied by the board
where their enforcement will result in extraordinary individual hardship,
provided the public interest is served. An applicant for such a variance must
specifically state the hardship caused by these regulations and adequately
prove that the variance will not cause an adverse effect to the health, safety
and welfare of the public. In granting any variance, the board may impose
conditions, as necessary, to ensure substantial compliance with the general
principles of this chapter.
   B.   Appeal: Any person, firm or corporation may appeal a decision of the
county assessor to the board by filing a written notice of appeal with the
board within thirty (30) days after the decision. The notice of appeal shall
specifically state where the county assessor erred in the interpretation or
application of this chapter; failure to do so shall be grounds for dismissal of
the appeal. Copies of the notice shall also be submitted to the county assessor
and county clerk. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-16: FEES:
A fee may be charged for street naming, address assignments, variances and/or
appeals. Fees shall be set by resolution of the board. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
2-1-17: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to install a street
sign or otherwise use a street name that has not been approved by the county
assessor. It is also a violation for any person to remove, alter, change or
otherwise deface a street sign that exists in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to post an address
number or otherwise use an address that has not been approved by the county
assessor.
   C.   Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and for each day
that a violation continues, each day shall constitute a separate violation.
Each violation shall be punishable as provided in section 18-113, Idaho Code as
it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled. (Ord. 853, 3-22-2016)
CHAPTER 2
ADA COUNTY PARKS AND WATERWAYS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Short Title And Purpose
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Enforcement And Responsibility
2-2-4: Pet And Livestock Restrictions
2-2-5: Fire, Firework, Firearm, And Weapon Restrictions
2-2-6: General Nuisance Restrictions To Protect Health, Safety, Property, And
Habitat
2-2-7: Advertisement, Solicitation, And Business Restrictions
2-2-8: Alcohol And Smoking Restrictions
2-2-9: Prohibited Acts On The Boise River
2-2-10: Parking, Driving And Camping Restrictions
2-2-11: Penalties For Violations
2-2-12: Parks, Open Space And Trails Advisory Board
2-2-13: Continuation Of Existing Membership
2-2-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY PARKS AND WATERWAYS ORDINANCE,
and is enacted for the purpose of regulating the operation of Ada County parks
and waterways and controlling the activities of the public within such areas,
protecting the public health, and providing penalties for the violation of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given herein. All other words contained in this chapter not
specifically defined shall have their ordinary and customary meanings.
ADA COUNTY PARKS AND WATERWAYS PROPERTY: Any property which is owned, managed,
leased, licensed or under easement by Ada County for park and recreational
purposes. Such areas include, but are not limited to, Barber Park, the Boise
River, Hubbard Reservoir, Oregon Trailhead, the Greenbelt, Ada County Bike
Park, Fivemile/Victory Wetland, Lucky Peak Lake docks, foothill trails and
trailhead facilities.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Ada County, Idaho.
BOISE RIVER: All public property in unincorporated Ada County over which Ada
County has jurisdiction surrounding the river for a distance of seventy feet
(70') horizontally landward from the ordinary high water mark into and
including the river itself.
CAMP OR CAMPING: The use of land for living accommodation purposes such as
sleeping, making preparations to sleep (including laying down bedding for the
purpose of sleeping), storing personal belongings, making fire, using any
tents, shelter or vehicle for sleeping.
DEPARTMENT: The Ada County Parks and Waterways Department.
DIRECTOR: The Chief Administrator of the Ada County Parks and Waterways
Department.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE: Any electronic oral device, such as one composed of a
heating or ultrasonic element, better and/or electronic current, which provides
a vapor of nicotine or any other substance, and use or inhalation of which
simulates smoking. The term shall include any such device, whether
manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, or
under any other product name or descriptor.
ELECTRONIC POWER-ASSISTED BICYCLE (E-BIKE): A vehicle having two (2) tandem
wheels or two (2) parallel wheels and one forward wheel, any two (2) of which
are not less than twelve inches (12") in diameter, that is designed to be
operated by human power with the assistance of an electronic motor that has a
power output of no more than seven hundred fifty (750) watts that: a) is
incapable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of more than twenty (20) miles
per hour; and b) disengages or ceases to function when the vehicle's brakes are
applied. An E-bike is not a vehicle for purposes of this chapter.
EXCRETION: The discharge of human waste from the body, including the acts of
defecation and urination.
FOOTHILL TRAILS: Paths and trails in the Ridge to Rivers Trail Network that are
located entirely and solely on property owned by Ada County.
GREENBELT: Land within seventy feet (70') of the six thousand five hundred
(6,500) cfs flow line of the Boise River which may be owned by the county or
over which the county may have a right of possession or use and: (A) which is
designated by the County Commissioners to be retained in perpetuity for public
use for purposes compatible with aesthetic, wildlife, education and
recreational values of the Boise River; (B) which will provide for
unrestricted, noncommercial access to the river; and (C) which will be
developed and used to minimize water pollution, provide continuity of the
public parks system and create a buffer where necessary between conflicting
land uses.
HUMAN WASTE: Human feces or human urine.
LIVESTOCK: Poultry or other birds, horses, cattle, dairy cattle, swine, sheep,
llamas, goats, or other grazing animals.
MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT OR MOTORBOAT: Any vessel propelled by machinery whether or
not such machinery is the principal source of propulsion. This includes any
vessel temporarily or permanently equipped with a motor, including, but not
limited to, jet propulsion, electric, and gasoline powered machinery.
PARK, PARKED OR PARKING: The condition of any vehicle stopped or left standing,
whether attended or unattended.
PARKS, OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS ADVISORY BOARD: The Advisory Board appointed by
the Board as authorized in this chapter.
SERVICE LINE: An indoor or outdoor location in which one or more persons are
waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service
involves the exchange of money, including, but not limited to, persons waiting
to use an ATM, attend a concert, obtain food or drink from a vendor, purchase
tickets, rent equipment, purchase or board public transit or attend a sporting
event.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying or possessing any
combusting (heated, lit, or smoldering) tobacco or any other substance, whether
contained in a cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other object. Smoking does not
include possession of an unlit cigar, cigarette, or pipe.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any substance that contains tobacco, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipes, snuff, smoking tobacco, tobacco papers,
or smokeless tobacco.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway. The term does not include E-bikes,
devices moved by human or animal power or devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 844, 7-21-2015; amd. Ord. 849, 2-2-2016; amd. Ord. 882, 4-17-2018; Ord.
974, 8-13-2024)
2-2-3: ENFORCEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Limitation On Liability: Ada County, its agents or employees, is not
responsible for damages to, or the theft of, personal property within the
boundaries of Ada County parks and waterways property.
   B.   Authority Conferrable On Employees: The Director may authorize any
employee of the department to exercise any power granted to, or perform any
duty imposed upon, the Director.
   C.   Limit Or Deny Access: The Director shall have the authority to limit or
deny access to any area covered by this chapter whenever it has reached its
designed capacity.
   D.   Closed Areas: The Director may declare any section or part of any Ada
County parks and waterways property as closed to the public entirely or for
certain uses, at any time and for any interval of time. The Director's closure
may be for all day or for any period of time, and may be, temporarily or at
regularly and stated intervals (daily or otherwise). (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015)
2-2-4: PET AND LIVESTOCK RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Ada County Parks And Waterways Property: For each area, the Director
shall designate and post allowed pet and livestock uses, including on leash,
off leash, and controlled off leash regulations for dogs. All pets on the
Greenbelt must be leashed at all times.
      1.   Dogs: No person owning or having care, custody, possession or
control of a dog within Ada County parks and waterways property shall:
         a.   Fail to have in his/her possession the equipment necessary to
remove his/her dog's fecal matter when accompanied by said dog on any Ada
County parks and waterways property; or
         b.   Fail to remove the fecal matter deposited by his/her dog on any
Ada County parks and waterways property before leaving the immediate area where
the fecal matter was deposited.
   B.   Violations: Violation(s) of subsection A of this section is an
infraction and each violation is punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
fine. Violation(s) of subsection A1b of this section is an infraction and each
violation is punishable as provided in Idaho Code section 18-7031, as it may be
amended and/or retitled from time to time. (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015)
2-2-5: FIRE, FIREWORK, FIREARM, AND WEAPON RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Fires: All fires shall be restricted to culinary purposes in gas and
charcoal grills. Upon the Director's prior approval, other fires may be
permitted in other areas for educational, interpretive, or other special
programming purposes. All other fires are prohibited. All permitted fires must
be kept under control at all times and must be extinguished before leaving Ada
County parks and waterways property, or whenever the site is left unattended.
Some or all areas may be closed to all fires during extreme fire danger at the
Director's discretion.
   B.   Fireworks: With the exception of handheld sparklers, no person shall
possess or use fireworks of any kind within Ada County parks and waterways
property without a permit. The usage of handheld sparklers is limited to booked
events that have reserved the outside patio of Barber Park Education and Event
Center and will not be permitted without the Director's prior approval.
   C.   Personal Safety, Firearms, Weapons: No person, except for authorized
law enforcement personnel, shall discharge any firearm, pneumatic weapon, air
rifle, spring gun, bow and arrow, sling, blowgun, pellet gun, or any other
weapon that discharges a projectile that is potentially harmful and dangerous
to human or animal safety within any Ada County parks and waterways property.
The discharge of firearms and weapons within these areas constitutes a per se
danger to persons and property. Such regulation does not apply to a person
discharging his or her firearm in the lawful defense of persons or property.
   D.   Violations: Violation(s) of subsection A or C of this section is a
misdemeanor and each violation is punishable as provided by Idaho Code section
18-113 as it may be amended and/or retitled from time to time. Violation(s) of
subsection B of this section is an infraction and each violation is punishable
as provided in Idaho Code section 18-7031, as it may be amended and/or retitled
from time to time. (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015)
2-2-6: GENERAL NUISANCE RESTRICTIONS TO PROTECT HEALTH, SAFETY, PROPERTY, AND
HABITAT:
   A.   Public Property: The destruction, injury, defacement, removal or
disturbance of any public building, sign, equipment, monument, statue, marker
or any other structure, or of any tree, flower, vegetation or any other public
property of any kind which is located on Ada County parks and waterways
property is prohibited. No person shall use any Ada County parks and waterways
property for access to adjoining or nearby privately owned property for any
purpose, or to construct or install any facility or improvement upon, over, or
beneath any area within Ada County parks and waterways property without the
Board or the Director's written consent.
   B.   Glass Containers: No glass beverage containers are permitted on Ada
County parks and waterways property, provided however, that glass beverage
containers are permitted upon the Director's prior approval, in the Barber Park
Education and Event Center building or shelters attached thereto.
   C.   Littering: All refuse or garbage, including cigarettes and cigarette
butts, must be placed in proper trash receptacles or ashtrays. Littering on Ada
County parks and waterways property is prohibited.
   D.   Protection Of Wildlife: It shall be unlawful for any person within Ada
County parks and waterways property to molest, injure, harm, frighten, chase,
tease, annoy, throw an object at, or kill any animal. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to release any animal from captivity or open any fence or gate
containing or restricting animals' movement.
   E.   Control Of Speed: Greenbelt and bike paths users are expected to act
responsibly and courteously and not to exceed a safe and prudent speed. It is
prohibited for cyclists, E-bike operators, scooter riders, skateboarders,
roller skaters, and in-line skaters to use the Greenbelt or bike paths at such
a speed as to endanger or injure other users.
   F.   Ski Poles And Push Poles: The use of ski poles, push poles, or other
such similar equipment on the Greenbelt or bike paths is prohibited, except
that ski poles shall be permitted by cross country skiers when sufficient snow
is present such that using poles will not damage the Greenbelt or bike paths
and push poles shall be permitted by land paddlers when a rubberized footer is
present on the pole such that using it will not cause damage to the Greenbelt
or bike paths.
   G.   Public Health: No person shall excrete human waste, except in
designated restroom facilities, on any parks and waterways property.
   H.   Sound: No person shall operate or aid in the operation of private
radios, stereophonic or sound amplification devices at a greater operating
level than sixty two (62) decibels measured at a distance of twenty feet (20')
from such radios or devices unless the Director gives permission. If during the
same day the person is again found in violation of this subsection, that person
will be required to leave Ada County parks and waterways property.
   I.   Aircraft Restrictions: No person shall operate, land or take off in a
balloon, plane or other aircraft from Ada County parks and waterways property,
without a written agreement with Ada County that authorizes such activity
except in an emergency or as other Federal or State law specifically permits.
   J.   Wheeled Devices: No person on any Ada County parks and waterways
property shall ride or operate a skateboard, roller skates, scooter, in-line
skates, bicycle, or other wheeled recreation equipment on any concrete
sidewalk, curbing, ornamental surface, hand railing, picnic table, bench, sport
court, playground area, planter, sculpture, or other structure unless otherwise
designated as an area where wheeled devices are permitted.
   K.   Impede Movement: No person shall endanger the safety or health of any
person by prohibiting the normal flow and movement of pedestrians through the
grounds by blocking entryways, pathways, and attractions so that other people
may not pass freely.
   L.   Violations: Violation(s) of subsections B, E, F, H, I, J and/or K of
this section is an infraction and each violation is punishable by a one hundred
dollar ($100.00) fine. Violation(s) of subsection C of this section is an
infraction and each violation is punishable as provided in Idaho Code section
18-7031 as it may be amended and/or retitled from time to time. Violation(s) of
subsections A, D, and G of this section is a misdemeanor and each violation is
punishable as provided by Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may be amended and/or
retitled from time to time.
   M.   Ejectment: An Idaho law enforcement officer, the Director and his or
her duly authorized representative shall have the authority to eject from Ada
County parks and waterways property any person acting in violation of this
section. Any person ejected from Ada County parks and waterways property shall
leave promptly and peaceably and shall not return to Ada County parks and
waterways property for any reason on the same calendar day of ejectment. This
authority is granted in addition to criminal penalties available under this
section. (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015; amd. Ord. 882, 4-17-2018)
2-2-7: ADVERTISEMENT, SOLICITATION, AND BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Advertisements: Public notices, public announcements, advertisements or
other printed matter shall only be posted or distributed in a special area
approved by the Director within Ada County parks and waterways property. All
advertising space is Ada County's exclusive property. No signs, banners, or
printed material will be permitted without the Director's prior approval.
   B.   Authorized Operations: No person shall operate any concession, business
or enterprise at or on Ada County parks and waterways property without the
Board's prior written authorization.
   C.   Solicitation:
      1.   For the public's safety, to control traffic flow, crowd control, and
to avoid littering, no signature gathering or other public forum activities
shall take place in the parking lots, streets, or pedestrian gate entry areas
of Ada County parks and waterways property. All such activities shall take
place in the areas and manner as described below.
      2.   With the exception of booked events at the Barber Park Education and
Event Center, or during the course of any function or event conducted by the
Ada County Parks and Waterways Department, it shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, partnership, association, organization, group, or entity to
solicit money or to solicit, sell, or distribute any merchandise or printed
written material or gather signatures except under license issued by the Board
or the Director and except from a location and in a manner specifically fixed
and designated by either the Board or the Director. (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015)
2-2-8: ALCOHOL AND SMOKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Alcohol: Persons at least twenty one (21) years of age and in
possession of valid legal identification may possess beer and wine for personal
consumption within Ada County parks and waterways property except for the
following restricted areas: streets, parking lots, playgrounds, sports courts,
sidewalks, pathways, restrooms, the Boise River, the Barber Park Beach, the
Barber Park Education and Event Center premises when leased for a private
function or event and within fifty feet (50') of the Greenbelt under the
jurisdiction of the Ada County Parks and Waterways Department. Furthermore, no
liquor, beer, or wine, as defined in Idaho Code sections 23-902(8), 23-1001(a)
and 23-1303(a), as may be amended from time to time, may be brought to or
served on any portion of Barber Park Education and Event Center premises or any
portion of Ada County parks and waterways property that has been leased for a
private function or event without a contract with Ada County expressly allowing
for such possession or service or the Board's prior approval when leased for a
private function or event.
   B.   Tobacco Products And Electronic Cigarettes Prohibited On Ada County
Parks And Waterways Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to light,
use, inhale, or consume any tobacco product or electronic cigarette on Ada
County parks and waterways property outside of a designated "smoking permitted"
area.
   C.   Director May Designate "Smoking Permitted" Areas: The Director may
designate and post "smoking permitted" areas. The Director shall clearly and
conspicuously post the smoking designated areas with prominently posted signs
that read "Warning: Smoking Permitted". The designated smoking areas shall be
at least twenty five feet (25') from any:
      1.   Outdoor playground,
      2.   Service line,
      3.   Outside entrance, operable window, and ventilation system of
enclosed areas,
      4.   Outdoor arena, stadium, amphitheater, bleacher, or grandstand for
use by spectators at sporting and other public events, and
      5.   Outdoor public transportation station, platform, or shelter under
Ada County's jurisdiction.
The absence of such posted notices shall constitute evidence the Director has
not approved any smoking areas within the area. This subsection does not apply
to designated smoker outposts and ash receptacles on the patio at the Barber
Park Education and Event Center.
   D.   Where Smoking Is Not Regulated: Notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter and section to the contrary, smoking in automobiles, whether in a
parking lot or roadway, within Ada County parks and waterways property shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Violations: Violation(s) of subsection A of this section is an
infraction and each violation is punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
fine. Pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-5507, violation(s) of subsection B of
this section is an infraction and each violation is punishable by a fine of
seventeen dollars fifty cents ($17.50). (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015)
2-2-9: PROHIBITED ACTS ON THE BOISE RIVER:
This provision is intended to address certain acts on or about portions of the
Boise River and Boise River area within Ada County's jurisdiction. Through
regulation of those acts, this provision seeks to preserve the natural habitat
of the Boise River and ensure the protection of life, property, and the public
health, safety, and welfare. It shall be unlawful in the river to:
   A.   Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree, shrub, or plant or
to strip any bark, pick any flowers, or collect any seeds from any such tree,
shrub, or plant without the Director's permission. Nor shall any person attach
any such rope, wire, surfing device, or other such similar object to any tree
or plant, or swing jump, and/or ride on any rope, wire, surfing device, or
other similar object attached to any tree or plant; or dig, disturb, impair, or
injure any natural habitat of the area.
   B.   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, annoy, shoot,
or throw objects at any animal. Nor shall any person collect any nests or eggs
from any wild bird or reptile unless authorized by the Director. Ada County
Parks and Waterways Department staff, representatives of Idaho State Fish and
Game, and/or Ada County Animal Control, may, in the performance of their
duties, and with the Director's approval, do such acts necessary to protect
life or property or improve the wildlife habitat. Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to prohibit lawful fishing activities on or in the Boise
River.
   C.   Operate or park any motor vehicles in the Boise River. This subsection
does not prohibit vehicles the Board authorized or watercraft, emergency
vehicles, motorized wheelchairs, or other similar vehicles the physically or
mentally challenged use.
   D.   Fire or discharge any firearm of any description, or any air rifle,
spring gun, bow and arrow, sling, or any other form of weapon potentially
harmful to wildlife and dangerous to human safety, nor shall any person use an
instrument that can be loaded with and fire blank cartridges, or any kind of
trapping device. This subsection does not apply to a person discharging his or
her firearm in lawful self-defense of persons or property, to duly authorized
law enforcement personnel certified by the Idaho Department of Police Officer
Standards and Training in the course and scope of his or her employment as a
law enforcement official.
   E.   Camp in Boise River area. For purposes of this section, the Boise River
area includes all public property adjacent to the Boise River in unincorporated
Ada County for a distance of two hundred feet (200') horizontally landward from
the ordinary high water mark. No person shall be permitted to camp or otherwise
remain in the Boise River area overnight.
   F.   Use, carry, or possess any container made of glass or styrofoam.
   G.   Litter, deposit or discard any trash, rubbish, or refuse, except in a
proper trash receptacle or ashtray.
   H.   Use or ride in or upon any motorized watercraft from the portion of the
Boise River immediately below Lucky Peak Dam downriver to the Boise City
limits. This prohibition shall not apply to motorized watercraft operated by
personnel authorized by the Ada County Sheriff, the local Fire Department, or
designated representative(s) for the purpose of safety and rescue. Nor shall it
apply to Idaho State Fish and Game personnel, or Ada County Animal Control
staff in the performance of their duties.
   I.   Launch any watercraft from Ada County parks and waterways property
unless posted.
   J.   Violation(s) of subsections A, B, C, D, F, H and/or I of this section
is an infraction and each violation is punishable by a one hundred dollar
($100.00) fine. A violation of subsection E of this section is a separate
offense for each day that the camp or camping is maintained, kept, or allowed
to exist. A violation of subsection E of this section shall be a misdemeanor
and is punishable as provided by Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may be amended
and/or retitled from time to time. Violation(s) of subsection G of this section
is an infraction and each violation is punishable pursuant to Idaho Code
section 18-111, as it may be amended and/or retitled from time to time. (Ord.
844, 7-21-2015; amd. Ord. 861, 2-14-2017)
2-2-10: PARKING, DRIVING AND CAMPING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or own any vehicle
found to be parked in violation of posted parking restrictions within Ada
County parks and waterways property. It shall also be unlawful for any person
to park or own any vehicle found to be parked in any area blocking an emergency
exit, fire lane, or access point to a public parking area and/or public parking
space.
   B.   Prohibited Activities In Parking Lots: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate go-carts, remote controlled airplanes, windsurfing boards, or
engage in in-line hockey, or driver's training within Ada County parks and
waterways' parking lots.
   C.   Motor Vehicle Code: The provisions of title 49, chapters 6, 7 and 8,
Idaho Code, shall be applicable to motor vehicles in any area officially
designated Ada County parks and waterways property.
   D.   Speed Limit: The speed limit within Ada County parks and waterways
property shall be ten (10) miles per hour unless a different speed is
specifically posted.
   E.   Control Of Speed Greenbelt: No personal shall travel upon the Greenbelt
at a speed greater than, or in a manner that is not, reasonable and prudent
under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then
existing. Violation of this provision is an infraction. However, if such travel
also endangers or is likely to endanger any person or property, then violation
is a misdemeanor.
   F.   Motorized Vehicles: All motorized and off road vehicles must stay on
authorized established roadways. No motorized vehicles shall be permitted on
any sidewalk, bike path, trail or area designated for use by pedestrians,
bicyclists, and other wheeled activities moved solely by human or animal power.
Law enforcement personnel, emergency service providers, Ada County employees in
the course of their employment, others the Director authorizes, persons
operating a wheelchair, or electric wheelchair, E-bike operators, and persons
with a bona fide handicap that require an electric personal assistive mobility
device are exempt from this regulation.
   G.   E-Bikes: E-bikes are prohibited on the foothill trails. E-bikes are
permitted on the Greenbelt.
   H.   Overnight Camping And Parking: Overnight camping and parking is
prohibited on Ada County parks and waterways property except as the Board or
the Director permit.
   I.   Violation: Violation(s) of this section is an infraction and each
violation is punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine. Further, any
vehicle found parked in violation of this chapter may be cited and/or removed
at the owner or operator's expense. The owner or operator may also be liable
for all other reasonable storage expenses that the company removing the vehicle
may charge.
(Ord. 844, 7-21-2015; amd. Ord. 882, 4-17-2018; Ord. 974, 8-13-2024)
2-2-11: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person failing to comply with sections
2-2-4 through
2-2-10 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, unless such offense is
specifically designated herein as an infraction, and shall be subject to the
penalties provided in Idaho Code sections 18-111, 18-113, 18-7031, 39-5507, and
39-3609. The above penalties shall in no way limit the rights of Ada County to
file a civil claim against a violator to collect for damages to Ada County
property. (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015)
2-2-12: PARKS, OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose: Pursuant to Idaho Code sections 31-806, 31-
807, and 31-828, there is hereby established the Parks, Open Space and Trails
Advisory Board, whose purpose shall be:
      1.   To provide the Board a current inventory of open space and trails in
Ada County.
      2.   To provide recommendations to the Board based on the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan, concerning potential open space and trails for
preservation, conservation, or acquisition by Ada County, or for which Ada
County might facilitate preservation, conservation or acquisition by others.
      3.   To provide nonbinding advice to the Director or Board concerning the
operation and administration of Ada County parks and waterways property.
      4.   To provide the Board and the Director with recommendations and
proposed rules of use for Ada County parks and waterways property.
      5.   In the absence of the Director, the Parks, Open Space and Trails
Advisory Board shall manage Ada County parks and waterways property for the
Board.
      6.   To serve as a liaison between the Board and the residents of Ada
County, including, but not limited to, the users and patrons of Ada County
parks and waterways property, and open space and trails in unincorporated Ada
County.
   B.   Membership: The Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory Board shall be
made up of seven (7) members, all of whom shall be Ada County residents. Each
Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory Board member shall serve at the pleasure
of the Board. Members of the Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory Board shall
serve without compensation, but the Board shall reimburse their reasonable
expenses.
   C.   Terms: Terms of appointment shall be for three (3) consecutive fiscal
years commencing October 1 and ending September 30 of the third fiscal year;
provided, however, that the initial appointments to the Parks, Open Space and
Trails Advisory Board shall be three (3) appointments for one year terms, two
(2) appointments for two (2) year terms and two (2) appointments for three (3)
year terms.
   D.   Meetings: The Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory Board or the
Director or Board may schedule Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory Board
meetings by giving reasonable notice of the time and place of such meeting in
accordance with the Open Meetings Act, Idaho Code section 74-201 et seq., as it
may be amended from time to time. The Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory
Board shall adopt reasonable procedural rules not inconsistent with either this
chapter or the provisions of any policy manual the Board or Director may adopt
and elect such officers as it deems necessary. (Ord. 844, 7-21-2015; amd. Ord.
849, 2-2-2016)
2-2-13: CONTINUATION OF EXISTING MEMBERSHIP:
The membership of the Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory Board shall
continue to be those members in office immediately preceding the enactment of
this chapter. The terms of such members shall continue until their previously
designated time. The enactment of this chapter shall have no affect on the
business or membership of the Parks, Open Space and Trails Advisory Board.
(Ord. 844, 7-21-2015; amd. Ord. 849, 2-2-2016)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC SAFETY COMPLEX
SECTION:
2-3-1: Short Title And Purpose
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Parking, Driving And Camping Regulations
2-3-4: County Employee Reserved Parking
2-3-5: Health And Safety
2-3-6: Solicitation, Loitering And Additional Parking Regulations
2-3-7: Penalties For Violations
2-3-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the PUBLIC SAFETY COMPLEX ORDINANCE, and is
enacted for the purpose of regulating the operation of the Ada County Public
Safety Complex and controlling the activities of the public within such areas
and providing for penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given herein. All other words contained in this chapter not
specifically defined shall have their ordinary and customary meanings.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Ada County, Idaho.
PARK, PARKED OR PARKING: The condition of any vehicle stopped or left standing,
whether attended or unattended.
PUBLIC SAFETY COMPLEX: The property owned by Ada County adjacent to Barrister
Drive in Boise, Idaho.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or horsedrawn or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord.
745, 3-2-2010)
2-3-3: PARKING, DRIVING AND CAMPING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on, or
own any vehicle found to be parked on or in any area in any Ada County owned or
leased property in violation of posted parking restrictions. It shall also be
unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, or to own any vehicle found to be
parked on, any area blocking an emergency exit, fire lane, or access point to a
public parking area and/or public parking space.
   B.   Prohibited Activities: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
go-carts, remote controlled airplanes, windsurfing boards, skateboards, or
engage in in-line hockey, skating, or driver's training on any Ada County owned
or leased parking lots.
   C.   Motor Vehicle Code: The provisions of title 49, chapters 6, 7 and 8,
Idaho Code, shall be applicable to motor vehicles in any area on all Ada County
owned or leased property.
   D.   Speed Limit: The speed limit on all Ada County owned or leased property
shall be ten (10) miles per hour unless specifically posted at a different
speed.
   E.   Motorized Vehicles: All motorized and off road vehicles must stay on
authorized established roadways. No motorized vehicles shall be permitted on
any sidewalk, bike path, trail or area designated for use by pedestrians,
bicyclists, and other wheeled activities moved solely by human power. Law
enforcement personnel, emergency service providers, Ada County employees in the
course of their employment, others authorized by the director, and persons
operating a wheelchair, electric wheelchair, other handicapped vehicles or an
electric personal assistive mobility device are exempt from this regulation.
   F.   Overnight Camping And Parking: Overnight camping and parking is
prohibited on any Ada County owned or leased property except as permitted by
the board for special group activities, festivals or holiday events.
   G.   Violation: Violation of this section is specifically designated herein
as an infraction punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine. Any vehicle
found parked in violation of this chapter may be cited, and/or removed at the
expense of the owner.
   H.   Enforcement And Penalties: It shall be the duty of the Ada County
sheriff, or any deputy sheriff, to leave notice at or on any vehicle or other
property parked in violation of this chapter. This notice shall bear the date
and hour of leaving the same at or upon the vehicle. The notice shall instruct
the owner or operator of the vehicle or property to report to the magistrate's
division of the district court in regard to such violation. It shall be the
duty of such sheriff or deputy sheriff to leave at or upon such vehicle a
separate notice for each hour thereafter that such vehicle and/or property
remains parked in violation of this chapter. In the event such owner or
operator fails to report to the magistrate's division at the time provided in
said notice, a warrant for the arrest of said person will be issued. In
addition to the penalty assessed by the court for violation of this chapter,
the owner or operator of any vehicle or other property shall be liable for any
expense incurred by the county involving said vehicle to be towed away or
otherwise removed. The owner or operator of any vehicle shall be liable for any
and all other reasonable expenses for storage charged by the company removing
said vehicle and causing said vehicle to be stored. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-3-4: COUNTY EMPLOYEE RESERVED PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on, or own any
vehicle found to be parked on, or to otherwise obstruct with such person's
property, or own any property found to be obstructing any space reserved for
the parking of the vehicles of the employees of the county of Ada, and which
reserved parking space is located on real property owned by or leased to Ada
County. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. Also any
vehicles so parked may be removed at the expense of the owner thereof.
   B.   This chapter shall not be construed to apply to the person for whom the
parking space is reserved, or to anyone who parks or owns any vehicle which is
parked on any reserved parking space with the consent of the person for whom
said parking space is reserved. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-3-5: HEALTH AND SAFETY:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health of the inhabitants of Ada
County, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to excrete human waste, except
in designated restroom facilities, on any Ada County owned or leased property.
For purposes of this subsection, the following definitions shall apply:
    EXCRETION: The discharge of human waste from the body, including the acts
of defecation and urination.
   HUMAN WASTE: Human feces or human urine. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-3-6: SOLICITATION, LOITERING AND ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Solicitation Of Business, Demonstrations, Picketing, Distribution Of
Material, Parade, Rally Prohibited:
      1.   No person may, or attempt to, for any purpose, solicit business,
demonstrate, picket, distribute any material, parade, or rally in or on the
property of the Public Safety Complex.
   B.   Loitering Prohibited:
      1.   No person may loiter in or on the property of the Public Safety
Complex, unless providing goods or performing services under a contract entered
into with Ada County. The term "loiter" means: a) entering without the purpose
of conducting, or assisting in conducting, or accompanying someone conducting
lawful business with a government agency in or on the property of the Public
Safety Complex, or b) remaining in or on the property for an unreasonable
amount of time after conducting lawful business with a government agency
located in or on the Public Safety Complex.
   C.   Parking, Camping And Parking Lot Usage Regulations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on, or own
any vehicle found to be parked on or in any areas on the Public Safety Complex,
including the parking lot in violation of posted parking restrictions. It shall
also be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or to own any vehicle found
to be parked on any area blocking an emergency exit, fire lane, or access point
to a public parking area and/or public parking space. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to park any vehicle or to own any vehicle found to be parked on
any Public Safety Complex property, including the parking lot, if the person is
not then conducting business in the Public Safety Complex.
      2.   Overnight camping or parking is not permitted on any portion of the
Public Safety Complex grounds and parking lots except as authorized in writing
by the sheriff, police chief, or their designee.
      3.   No person shall knowingly enter the restricted areas of the Public
Safety Complex or its adjacent property without authorization. It shall be a
misdemeanor for any person to violate the provisions of any rule or regulation
adopted by the sheriff and the board. All such rules will be conspicuously
posted at each entrance to the Public Safety Complex. Crossing over or through
a fence onto the Public Safety Complex shall be a violation regardless of
signage.
   D.   Pet Policy:
      1.   Members of the public are prohibited from bringing pets onto the
Public Safety Complex property, including parking lots, with the exception of
disability related guide dogs and law enforcement K-9s. Dogs, which are
permitted, must be on a leash. This section does not prohibit pets that are
left in vehicles while the owner/caretaker is conducting lawful business at the
Public Safety Complex. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-3-7: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, unless such offense is specifically designated herein
as an infraction, and shall be subject to the penalties provided in Idaho Code
sections 18-111 and 18-113. The above penalties shall in no way limit the
rights of Ada County to file a civil claim against a violator to collect for
damages to Ada County property. Any vehicle found parked in violation of this
chapter may be cited, and/or removed at the expense of the owner. (Ord. 745, 3-
2-2010)
CHAPTER 4
BENJAMIN CAMPUS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Short Title And Purpose
2-4-2: Definitions
2-4-3: Parking, Driving And Camping Regulations
2-4-4: County Employee Reserved Parking
2-4-5: Health And Safety
2-4-6: Penalties For Violations
2-4-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the BENJAMIN CAMPUS ORDINANCE, and is enacted
for the purpose of regulating the operation of the Ada County Public Safety
Complex and controlling the activities of the public within such areas and
providing for penalties for the violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given herein. All other words contained in this chapter not
specifically defined shall have their ordinary and customary meanings.
BENJAMIN CAMPUS: The property owned by Ada County adjacent to Benjamin Lane in
Boise, Idaho.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Ada County, Idaho.
PARK, PARKED OR PARKING: The condition of any vehicle stopped or left standing,
whether attended or unattended.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or horsedrawn or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord.
745, 3-2-2010)
2-4-3: PARKING, DRIVING AND CAMPING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on, or
own any vehicle found to be parked on or in any area in any Ada County owned or
leased property in violation of posted parking restrictions. It shall also be
unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, or to own any vehicle found to be
parked on, any area blocking an emergency exit, fire lane, or access point to a
public parking area and/or public parking space.
   B.   Prohibited Activities: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
go-carts, remote controlled airplanes, windsurfing boards, skateboards, or
engage in in-line hockey, skating, or driver's training on any Ada County owned
or leased parking lots.
   C.   Motor Vehicle Code: The provisions of title 49, chapters 6, 7 and 8,
Idaho Code, shall be applicable to motor vehicles in any area on all Ada County
owned or leased property.
   D.   Speed Limit: The speed limit on all Ada County owned or leased property
shall be ten (10) miles per hour unless specifically posted at a different
speed.
   E.   Motorized Vehicles: All motorized and off road vehicles must stay on
authorized established roadways. No motorized vehicles shall be permitted on
any sidewalk, bike path, trail or area designated for use by pedestrians,
bicyclists, and other wheeled activities moved solely by human power. Law
enforcement personnel, emergency service providers, Ada County employees in the
course of their employment, others authorized by the director, and persons
operating a wheelchair, electric wheelchair, other handicapped vehicles or an
electric personal assistive mobility device are exempt from this regulation.
   F.   Overnight Camping And Parking: Overnight camping and parking is
prohibited on any Ada County owned or leased property except as permitted by
the board for special group activities, festivals or holiday events.
   G.   Violation: Violation of this section is specifically designated herein
as an infraction punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine. Any vehicle
found parked in violation of this chapter may be cited, and/or removed at the
expense of the owner.
   H.   Enforcement And Penalties: It shall be the duty of the sheriff of Ada
County, or any deputy sheriff, to leave notice at or on any vehicle or other
property parked in violation of this chapter. This notice shall bear the date
and hour of leaving the same at or upon the vehicle. The notice shall instruct
the owner or operator of the vehicle or property to report to the magistrate's
division of the district court in regard to such violation. It shall be the
duty of such sheriff or deputy sheriff to leave at or upon such vehicle a
separate notice for each hour thereafter that such vehicle and/or property
remains parked in violation of this chapter. In the event such owner or
operator fails to report to the magistrate's division at the time provided in
said notice, a warrant for the arrest of said person will be issued. In
addition to the penalty assessed by the court for violation of this chapter,
the owner or operator of any vehicle or other property shall be liable for any
expense incurred by the county involving said vehicle to be towed away or
otherwise removed. The owner or operator of any vehicle shall be liable for any
and all other reasonable expenses for storage charged by the company removing
said vehicle and causing said vehicle to be stored. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-4-4: COUNTY EMPLOYEE RESERVED PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on, or own any
vehicle found to be parked on, or to otherwise obstruct with such person's
property, or own any property found to be obstructing any space reserved for
the parking of the vehicles of the employees of the county of Ada, and which
reserved parking space is located on real property owned by or leased to Ada
County. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. Also any
vehicles so parked may be removed at the expense of the owner thereof.
   B.   This chapter shall not be construed to apply to the person for whom the
parking space is reserved, or to anyone who parks or owns any vehicle which is
parked on any reserved parking space with the consent of the person for whom
said parking space is reserved. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-4-5: HEALTH AND SAFETY:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health of the inhabitants of Ada
County, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to excrete human waste, except
in designated restroom facilities, on any Ada County owned or leased property.
For purposes of this subsection, the following definitions shall apply:
    EXCRETION: The discharge of human waste from the body, including the acts
of defecation and urination.
   HUMAN WASTE: Human feces or human urine. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
2-4-6: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, unless such offense is specifically designated herein
as an infraction, and shall be subject to the penalties provided in Idaho Code
sections 18-111 and 18-113. The above penalties shall in no way limit the
rights of Ada County to file a civil claim against a violator to collect for
damages to Ada County property. (Ord. 745, 3-2-2010)
CHAPTER 5
MERIDIAN URBAN RENEWAL AREA
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose
2-5-2: Findings
2-5-3: Revenue Allocation
2-5-4: Intergovernmental Agreement
2-5-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to approve creation of that portion of the Meridian
urban renewal area lying outside the corporate boundaries of the city of
Meridian and within the Meridian area of city impact as more fully appears from
reference to ordinance 02-987 adopted by the city council of the city of
Meridian on December 3, 2002; to transfer power as provided in Idaho Code
section 50-2906; and to detail the roles, responsibilities and duties of the
city of Meridian, the county of Ada, and the Meridian urban renewal agency.
(Ord. 502, 4-8-2003)
2-5-2: FINDINGS:
The findings of the city council of the city of Meridian adopted December 3,
2002, in ordinance 02-987 are hereby adopted by the board of Ada County
commissioners. (Ord. 502, 4-8-2003)
2-5-3: REVENUE ALLOCATION:
The proceeds of revenue allocation from areas lying within the boundaries of
the Meridian urban renewal area shall be devoted to the statutory purposes as
authorized in the Meridian revitalization plan. (Ord. 502, 4-8-2003)
2-5-4: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
The intergovernmental agreement for roles and responsibilities under chapter
162, Idaho session laws 2000 (house bill 581), Idaho Code section 50-2906 (the
"agreement") is hereby approved and the chairman of the board of Ada County
commissioners is hereby authorized to execute the same, and to execute any
further documents necessary to carry out the intent of the board of Ada County
commissioners as expressed in this chapter and in the agreement. (Ord. 502, 4-
8-2003)
CHAPTER 6
EXPO IDAHO FACILITIES
SECTION:
2-6-1: Short Title And Purpose
2-6-2: Definitions
2-6-3: Expo Idaho Advisory Board
2-6-4: Continuation Of Existing Membership
2-6-5: Enforcement And Responsibility
2-6-6: Pet And Livestock Restrictions
2-6-7: Fire, Fireworks And Firearms Restrictions
2-6-8: Preservation Of Property And Wildlife And Nuisance Restrictions
2-6-9: Advertisement, Solicitation, And Business Restrictions
2-6-10: Alcohol And Smoking Restrictions
2-6-11: Prohibited Acts
2-6-12: Parking, Driving And Camping Regulations
2-6-13: Penalties For Violations
2-6-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the EXPO IDAHO FACILITIES ORDINANCE, and is
enacted for the purpose of regulating the operation of Expo Idaho and
controlling the activities of the public within such area and providing for
penalties for the violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 854, 4-5-
2016)
2-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given herein. All other words contained in this chapter not
specifically defined shall have their ordinary and customary meanings.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Ada County, Idaho.
DIRECTOR: The director, if any, of Expo Idaho appointed by the board.
EXPO IDAHO: The facilities that appear in that certain record of survey
recorded in the office of the Ada County recorder, book G of surveys, page
1612, instrument no. 9009958, on February 27, 1990. Also included as part of
the Expo Idaho facilities is Ladybird Park.
EXPO IDAHO ADVISORY BOARD: The Expo Idaho advisory board appointed by the board
as authorized in this chapter.
FAIR: The annual Western Idaho Fair held on the Expo Idaho facilities.
LIVESTOCK: Poultry or other birds, horses, cattle, dairy cattle, swine, sheep,
llamas, goats, or other grazing animals.
PARK, PARKED OR PARKING: The condition of any vehicle stopped or left standing,
whether attended or unattended.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or horsedrawn or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord.
854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-3: EXPO IDAHO ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose: The Expo Idaho advisory board's purpose
shall be to provide nonbinding advice to the director or board concerning the
operation and administration of the fair and the use of the Expo Idaho
facilities and grounds when the fair is not in session. In the absence of the
director, the Expo Idaho advisory board shall manage the fair and facilities of
Expo Idaho for the board. The members of the Expo Idaho advisory board shall
also serve as a liaison between the county and the residents of the county and
users and patrons of the fair and Expo Idaho facilities, communicate the
concerns of users and residents of the county to the director and board, and
when appropriate, communicate county policy to residents of the county and to
users of the fair and Expo Idaho facilities.
   B.   Membership: The Expo Idaho advisory board shall have seven (7) members.
The board, in its sole discretion, may appoint seven (7) members who are
residents of Ada County or may appoint six (6) members who are residents of Ada
County and appoint one (1) at-large member who represents the greater Treasure
Valley. Each Expo Idaho advisory board member shall serve at the pleasure of
the board. Members of the Expo Idaho advisory board shall serve without
compensation, but their reasonable expenses shall be reimbursed by the board.
   C.   Terms: Terms of appointment shall be for three (3) years.
   D.   Meetings: The Expo Idaho advisory board or the director or board may
schedule Expo Idaho advisory board meetings by giving reasonable notice of the
time and place of such meeting in accordance with the open meetings act, Idaho
Code section 74-201 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time. The Expo
Idaho advisory board shall adopt reasonable procedural rules not inconsistent
with either this chapter or the provisions of any policy manual the board or
director may adopt and elect such officers as it deems necessary. (Ord. 854, 4-
5-2016; amd. Ord. 910, 3-5-2020)
2-6-4: CONTINUATION OF EXISTING MEMBERSHIP:
The membership of the Expo Idaho advisory board shall continue to be those
members in office immediately preceding the enactment of this chapter. The
terms of such members shall continue until their previously designated time.
The enactment of this chapter shall have no effect on the business or
membership of the Expo Idaho advisory board. (Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-5: ENFORCEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Authority Of Ada County Sheriff: The Ada County sheriff, or his
authorized deputies, has the sole authority for and the duty to enforce penal
and regulatory laws adopted herein for the protection of Expo Idaho against
damage and for the preservation of the public peace therein.
   B.   Limitation On Liability: Ada County, its agents or employees, is not
responsible for damages to, or the theft of, personal property within the
boundaries of Expo Idaho.
   C.   Authority Conferrable On Employees: The director may authorize any
employee of Expo Idaho to exercise any power granted to, or perform any duty
imposed upon, the director.
   D.   Limit Or Deny Access: The director shall have the authority to limit or
deny access to any area covered by this chapter whenever it has reached its
designed capacity.
   E.   Closed Areas: The director may declare any section or part of any Expo
Idaho areas as closed to the public either entirely or for certain uses, at any
time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regularly and
stated intervals (daily or otherwise). (Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-6: PET AND LIVESTOCK RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Pets: Pets are not permitted on the Expo Idaho facilities (including
Ladybird Park), except at permitted events and as posted. Pets that are
permitted must be on leash.
   B.   Removal Of Fecal Matter: No person owning or having care, custody,
possession or control of a pet within Expo Idaho shall:
      1.   Fail to have in his/her possession the equipment necessary to remove
his/her pet's fecal matter when accompanied by said pet in Expo Idaho; or
      2.   Fail to remove the fecal matter deposited by his/her pet in Expo
Idaho before leaving the immediate area where the fecal matter was deposited.
   C.   Violations: Violations of subsections A and B of this section are
infractions and are each punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine.
(Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-7: FIRE, FIREWORKS AND FIREARMS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Fires: All fires shall be restricted to culinary purposes in gas and
charcoal grills. Upon prior special approval of the director, other fires may
be permitted in other areas of Expo Idaho for educational, interpretive or
other special programming. All other fires are prohibited. All permitted fires
must be kept under control at all times and must be extinguished before leaving
the immediate site where the fire is located, or whenever the site is left
unattended. Some or all of Expo Idaho may be closed to all fires during extreme
fire danger at the discretion of the director.
   B.   Fireworks: No person shall possess or use fireworks of any kind within
Expo Idaho without a permit granted by the board under title 5, chapter 6 of
this code.
   C.   Personal Safety, Weapons Or Firearms: Except upon prior special
approval by the director, no person, except for authorized law enforcement
personnel, shall discharge firearms, pneumatic weapons, air rifles, spring
guns, bows and arrows, slings, or any other form of weapon. Any permitted
discharge shall not purposefully or negligently endanger, damage or injure the
property or the life of any person or animal within Expo Idaho. (Ord. 854, 4-5-
2016)
2-6-8: PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY AND WILDLIFE AND NUISANCE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Public Property: The destruction, injury, defacement, removal or
disturbance of any public building, sign, equipment, monument, statue, marker
or any other structure, or of any tree, flower, vegetation or any other public
property of any kind which is located in Expo Idaho is prohibited. No person
shall use Expo Idaho for access to adjoining or nearby privately owned property
for any purpose, or to construct or install any facility or improvement upon,
over or beneath any Expo Idaho without the written consent of the board or the
director.
   B.   Glass Containers: No glass beverage containers are permitted except
upon prior approval of the director in any structure or buildings at Expo
Idaho.
   C.   Littering: All refuse or garbage must be placed in proper trash
receptacles. Littering in Expo Idaho is prohibited.
   D.   Protection Of Wildlife: Expo Idaho is a sanctuary for wildlife of every
sort and all molesting, injuring or killing of any wild birds or animals is
strictly prohibited.
   E.   Control Of Speed: Users of the greenbelt and bike paths within Expo
Idaho are expected to act responsibly and courteously and not to exceed a safe
and prudent speed. It is prohibited for cyclists, scooter riders, and skaters
to use the greenbelt or bike paths at such a speed as to endanger or injure
other users.
   F.   Ski Poles And Push Poles: The use of ski poles, push poles, or other
such similar equipment on the greenbelt or bike paths in Expo Idaho is
prohibited, except that such ski pole usage shall be permitted by cross country
skiers when sufficient snow is present such that pole usage will not cause
damage to the greenbelt or bike paths.
   G.   Public Health: It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to excrete
human waste, except in designated restroom facilities, in Expo Idaho. For
purposes of this subsection, the following definitions shall apply:
    EXCRETE: The discharge of human waste from the body, including the acts of
defecation and urination.
   HUMAN WASTE: Human feces or human urine.
   H.   Aircraft Restrictions: No person shall operate, land or take off in a
balloon, plane or other aircraft from Expo Idaho without a written agreement
with Ada County that authorizes such activity except in an emergency or as
specifically permitted by other federal or state law.
   I.   Infractions: Violations of subsections B, C, E, F, and H of this
section are each infractions and are each punishable by a one hundred dollar
($100.00) fine. (Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-9: ADVERTISEMENT, SOLICITATION, AND BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Advertisements: Within Expo Idaho public notices, public announcements,
advertisements or other printed matter shall only be posted or distributed in a
special area approved by the director. All advertising space is the exclusive
property of Ada County. No signs, banners, or printed material will be
permitted without prior approval of the director.
   B.   Authorized Operations: No person shall operate any concession, business
or enterprise in Expo Idaho without prior written authorization from the
director or the board.
   C.   Solicitation:
      1.   For the safety of the public, to control traffic flow, crowd
control, and to avoid littering, no signature gathering or other public forum
activities shall take place in the parking lots or pedestrian gate entry areas
of Expo Idaho. All such activities shall take place in the areas and manner as
described below.
      2.   During the course of any function or event conducted by Expo Idaho,
it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, association,
organization, group, or entity to solicit money or to solicit, sell, or
distribute any merchandise or printed written material or gather signatures
except under license issued by the Board or the Director and except from a
location and in a manner specifically fixed and designated by either the Board
or the Director. Space shall be available on a first come, first served basis
to nonprofit, charitable and commercial enterprises or entities alike.
      3.   Applications for the following year's fair will be accepted no
sooner than eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the last day of the current year's
fair. Licensees must agree to abide by both the rules pertaining to exhibitors
and concessionaires and the exhibitor privilege contract. One location shall
also be made available for such activities at Les Bois Park.
      4.   For any events held at Expo Idaho not sponsored by Ada County, two
(2) areas will be set aside for signature gathering or other public forum
activities. Those areas are in front of the fountain stage and an area in front
of the grandstand entrance to Les Bois Park. In the event that either of these
areas are being rented or leased by exhibitors as part of their activities, the
Director will locate two (2) other areas approximately ten feet by ten feet
(10' x 10') near exhibition buildings or fairground open areas, provided such
locations do not impede ingress and egress to exhibition areas. Such areas
shall be available on a first come, first served basis upon application to the
Board or Director. (Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-10: ALCOHOL AND SMOKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Open Flames, Smoking Or Other Ignition Devices In Certain Areas Of Expo
Idaho Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke cigarettes,
cigars, or pipes, or in any way strike or use matches, cigarette lighters,
candles or other devices with an open flame within fifty feet (50') of any
shed, stall, barn, or other building in which horses or other livestock are
housed, or hay or other grains or feeds are stored upon the Expo Idaho
facilities.
   B.   Alcohol: All alcohol consumption is prohibited in or on parking lots,
sidewalks, paths, restrooms and roads in Expo Idaho. No liquor, beer, or wine,
as defined in Idaho Code sections 23-902(8), 23-1001(a) and 23-1303(a), as may
be amended from time to time, may be brought to or served at any portion of
Expo Idaho (excluding Ladybird Park) without a contract with Ada County
expressly allowing for such possession or service. Furthermore, no liquor, beer
or wine, as defined in Idaho Code sections 23-902(8), 23-1001(a) and 23-1303
(a), as may be amended from time to time, may be brought to or served in any
other portion of an Expo Idaho area which has been leased for a private
function or event. This subsection does not apply to the portions of Expo Idaho
that are leased to Hawks Memorial Stadium, the area leased to the recreational
vehicle park, and Les Bois Park facility.
   C.   Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited In Certain Areas Of Les
Bois Park: It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or have in his or her
possession any open container of alcoholic liquor or beer as defined in Idaho
Code within fifty feet (50') of any shed, stall, barn or training area where
horses are otherwise housed or present upon the Les Bois Park portion of the
Expo Idaho facilities. (Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Purpose; Application; Prohibited Acts: This section shall apply to and
is intended to ensure a safe and peaceful operation of Expo Idaho. No person
shall:
      1.   Harm, frighten, chase, tease, annoy or throw objects at an animal or
release any animal from captivity or open any fence or gate containing or
restricting the movement of animals.
      2.   Engage in any unlawful conduct or criminal activity or in any way
commit a violation or breach of the peace, as defined by Idaho Code and/or this
Code.
      3.   Endanger the safety or health of any person by prohibiting the
normal flow of and movement of pedestrians through the grounds and by blocking
entryways, pathways, and attractions so that other people may not freely pass.
   B.   Ejectment: An Idaho law enforcement officer, the Director and/or his
duly authorized representative, shall have the authority to eject from Expo
Idaho any person acting in violation of this section. Any person ejected from
Expo Idaho shall leave promptly and peaceably and shall not return for any
reason on the same calendar day of his/her ejectment. (Ord. 854, 4-5-2016; amd.
Ord. 859, 1-24-2017)
2-6-12: PARKING, DRIVING AND CAMPING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on, or
own any vehicle found to be parked on or in any area in Expo Idaho in violation
of posted parking restrictions. It shall also be unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle, or to own any vehicle found to be parked on, any area
blocking an emergency exit, fire lane, or access point to a public parking area
and/or public parking space.
   B.   Prohibited Activities: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
go-carts, remote controlled airplanes, windsurfing boards, skateboards, or
engage in in-line hockey, skating, or driver's training on Expo Idaho parking
lots.
   C.   Motor Vehicle Code: The provisions of title 49, chapters 6, 7 and 8,
Idaho Code, shall be applicable to motor vehicles in any area of Expo Idaho.
   D.   Speed Limit: The speed limit in all Expo Idaho areas shall be ten (10)
miles per hour unless specifically posted at a different speed.
   E.   Motorized Vehicles: All motorized and off road vehicles must stay on
authorized established roadways. No motorized vehicles shall be permitted on
any sidewalk, bike path, trail or area designated for use by pedestrians,
bicyclists, and other wheeled activities moved solely by human power. Law
enforcement personnel, emergency service providers, Ada County employees in the
course of their employment, others authorized by the Director, and persons
operating a wheelchair, electric wheelchair, other handicapped vehicles or an
electric personal assistive mobility device are exempt from this regulation.
   F.   Overnight Camping And Parking: Overnight camping and parking is
prohibited in Expo Idaho except as permitted by the Director or the Board for
special group activities, festivals or holiday events.
   G.   Violation: Violation of this section is specifically designated herein
as an infraction punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine. Any vehicle
found parked in violation of this chapter may be cited and/or removed at the
expense of the owner.
   H.   Enforcement And Penalties: It shall be the duty of the Ada County
Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff, to leave notice at or on any vehicle or other
property parked in violation of this chapter. This notice shall bear the date
and hour of leaving the same at or upon the vehicle. The notice shall instruct
the owner or operator of the vehicle or property to report to the Magistrate's
Division of the District Court in regard to such violation. It shall be the
duty of such Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff to leave at or upon such vehicle a
separate notice for each hour thereafter that such vehicle and/or property
remains parked in violation of this chapter. In the event such owner or
operator fails to report to the Magistrate's Division at the time provided in
said notice, a warrant for the arrest of said person will be issued. In
addition to the penalty assessed by the Court for violation of this chapter,
the owner or operator of any vehicle or other property shall be liable for any
expense incurred by the County involving said vehicle to be towed away or
otherwise removed. The owner or operator of any vehicle shall be liable for any
and all other reasonable expenses for storage charged by the company removing
said vehicle and causing said vehicle to be stored. (Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
2-6-13: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Except where this chapter specifies another penalty for a violation of this
chapter, a person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punishable
as provided in Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may be from time to time
amended and/or retitled. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 854, 4-5-2016)
CHAPTER 7
OPEN SPACE AND CONSERVATION AREA
SECTION:
2-7-1: Short Title, Purpose And Applicability
2-7-2: Definitions
2-7-3: Designating County Owned Land As Open Space And/Or Conservation Area
2-7-4: Other Uses Not Prohibited
2-7-5: Removal Of Open Space And/Or Conservation Area Designation
2-7-6: Prohibition On Sale Of County Owned Land Prior To Removal Of Designation
2-7-1: SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be known as the Ada County Open Space and Conservation Area
Ordinance, and is adopted for the purpose of providing a standardized system
for designating Ada County owned land as open space and/or a conservation area
as well as providing a system for removing such designation from the land.
The Board of County Commissioners deems public input important regarding
designations and considers all comments, as part of its overall determination
of whether to place a designation on County owned land and conversely whether
to remove the designation of open space and/or a conservation area. (Ord. 915,
10-20-2020)
2-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                    Outdoor recreational activities, such as organized sports,
ACTIVE RECREATION:  playground activities, and the use of motorized vehicles,
                    that require facilities that may have an environmental
                    impact on the land.
                    Land identified as having important natural values that
CONSERVATION AREA:  should be protected such as, but not limited to, wildlife
                    habitat, unique vegetation, steep slopes, or wetlands, and
                    does not have development.
                    Any activity which materially alters or affects the
                    existing state or use of the land. Development does not
DEVELOPMENT:        include trails, the placement of signs, wildlife
                    observation areas, trail heads and facilities to support
                    recreation.
OPEN SPACE:         Land identified as natural, open land that does not have
                    development.
                    Any non-motorized activity that offers constructive,
                    restorative, and pleasurable human benefits while not
PASSIVE RECREATION: significantly impacting open space and/or conservation
                    areas and their purposes; is compatible with other passive
                    recreation uses; and requires only minimal visitor
                    facilities and services. (Ord. 915, 10-20-2020)
 
2-7-3: DESIGNATING COUNTY OWNED LAND AS OPEN SPACE AND/OR A CONSERVATION AREA:
Designation of County owned land as open space and/or as a conservation area
shall be by Board of County Commissioners' resolution. Such resolution shall
specify the reasons why the County owned land is being designated, shall be
specific regarding the designation, and shall also specify the uses that are to
be allowed on the land.
Prior to designating the land as open space and/or a conservation area by
resolution, the Board shall determine the time and place for deliberation
regarding the designation. Fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing regarding the
designation, the Board shall post a public notice on the land of the hearing
time, date and location. Fifteen (15) days prior to hearing, the time, date and
location shall also be published in the newspaper, on the Board's website and
through public service announcements. A copy of the proposed resolution shall
be made available on the Board's website for review fifteen days prior to the
hearing.
If a resolution is adopted by the Board, such designation shall govern the
management of the County owned land until such time as the resolution is
replaced. (Ord. 915, 10-20-2020)
2-7-4: OTHER USES NOT PROHIBITED:
A Board of County Commissioners' designation of County owned land as open space
and/or as a conservation area does not preclude the land from being used for
other purposes, such as active or passive recreation. It does preclude
development on the land. It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Ada
County Parks and Waterways to manage the designated land in accordance with any
legal restrictions that exist on the land as well as well as to manage in
accordance with applicable ordinances. (Ord. 915, 10-20-2020)
2-7-5: REMOVAL OF OPEN SPACE AND/OR CONSERVATION AREA DESIGNATION:
Removal of the designation of County owned land as open space and/or as a
conservation area shall be by Board of County Commissioners' resolution. Such
resolution shall specify the reasons why the land is no longer being
designated.
The Board shall determine the time and place for deliberation of a resolution
regarding removal of the designation. Fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing
regarding removal of the designation, the Board shall post a public notice on
the County owned land of the hearing time, date and location. Fifteen (15) days
prior to hearing, the time, date and location shall also be published in the
newspaper, on the Board's website and through public service announcements. The
proposed resolution shall be made available for public review on the Board's
website fifteen days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 915, 10-20-2020)
2-7-6: PROHIBITION ON COUNTY OWNED LAND BEING SOLD PRIOR TO REMOVAL OF
DESIGNATION:
County owned land that has been designated by Board of County Commissioners'
resolution as open space and/or a conservation area shall not be sold until the
Board replaces such designation by resolution. (Ord. 915, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 8
ADA COUNTY LANDFILL
SECTION:
2-8-1: Short Title And Purpose
2-8-2: Definitions
2-8-3: Responsibility And Limitation On Access
2-8-4: Parking, Driving And Camping Regulations
2-8-5: Prohibition Against Uncovered Loads
2-8-6:General Regulations To Protect Health, Safety, Property And Habitat
2-8-7: Solicitation, Loitering And Pet Regulations
2-8-8: Smoking And Alcohol Restrictions
2-8-9: Fire, Fireworks And Firearms Restrictions
2-8-10: Penalties For Violations
2-8-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY LANDFILL ORDINANCE and is enacted
for the purpose of regulating operation of the Ada County Landfill and
controlling the activities of the public within such areas and providing
penalties for the violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 966, 12-
26-2023)
2-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given herein. All other words contained in this chapter not
specifically defined shall have their ordinary and customary meanings.
                         Real property owned by Ada County that is operated and
ADA COUNTY LANDFILL:     maintained as a solid waste disposal site, located at
                         and around 10300 N. Seaman Gulch Rd., Boise, ID 83714.
BOARD:                   The board of county commissioners of Ada County,
                         Idaho.
                         The use of land for living accommodation purposes such
                         as sleeping, making preparations to sleep (including
CAMP OR CAMPING:         laying down bedding for the purpose of sleeping),
                         storing personal belongings, making fire, using tents,
                         shelter or a vehicle for sleeping.
DEPARTMENT:              The Ada County Solid Waste Department.
DIRECTOR:                The director of the Ada County Solid Waste Department
                         appointed by the Board.
                         Any electronic oral device, such as one composed of a
                         heating or ultrasonic element, better and/or
                         electronic current, which provides a vapor of nicotine
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE:    or any other substance, and use or inhalation of which
                         simulates smoking. The term shall include any such
                         device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed,
                         or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, or under any other
                         product name or descriptor.
EXCRETE:                 Discharge of human waste from the body, including the
                         acts of defecation and urination.
HUMAN WASTE:             Human feces or human urine.
                         The act of (i) entering without the purpose of
                         conducting, or assisting in conducting, or
                         accompanying someone conducting lawful business with
LOITER:                  Ada County in or on the Ada County Landfill property,
                         or (ii) remaining in or on the Ada County Landfill
                         property for an unreasonable amount of time after
                         conducting lawful business with the County.
PARK, PARKED OR PARKING: The condition of any vehicle stopped or left standing,
                         whether attended or unattended.
                         Inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying, or processing
                         any combusting (heated, lit, or smoldering) tobacco or
SMOKE OR SMOKING:        any other substance, whether contained in a cigar,
                         cigarette, or pipe, or any other object. Smoking does
                         not include possession of an unlit cigar, cigarette,
                         or pipe.
                         Every device in, upon or by which any person or
                         property is or may be transported or drawn upon a
VEHICLE:                 public highway, excepting devices moved by human power
                         or horse drawn or used exclusively upon stationary
                         rails or tracks. (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
 
2-8-3: RESPONSIBILITY AND LIMITATION ON ACCESS:
   A.   Limitation On Liability: Ada County, and its agents or employees, are
not responsible for damages to, or the theft of, personal property within the
boundaries of the Ada County Landfill.
   B.   Authority Conferrable On Employees: The Director may authorize any
employee of the Department to exercise any power granted to, or perform any
duty imposed upon, the Director.
   C.   Limit Or Deny Access: The Director shall have the authority to limit or
deny access to any area covered by this chapter and may declare any section or
part of the Ada County Landfill as closed to the public entirely or for certain
uses, at any time and for any interval of time. (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
2-8-4: PARKING, DRIVING AND CAMPING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on, or
own any vehicle found to be parked on or in any area on Ada County Landfill
property in violation of posted parking restrictions. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to park any vehicle, or to own any vehicle found to be parked
on, any area blocking an emergency exit, fire lane, or access point to a public
parking area and/or public parking space.
   B.   Motor Vehicle Code: The provisions of title 49, chapters 6, 7 and 8,
Idaho Code, shall be applicable to motor vehicles in any area on the Ada County
Landfill property.
   C.   Speed Limit: The speed limit on all Ada County Landfill property shall
be ten (10) miles per hour unless otherwise specifically posted at a different
speed.
   D.   Motorized Vehicles: All motorized and off-road vehicles must stay on
authorized, established roadways at the Ada County Landfill. Law enforcement
personnel, emergency service providers, Ada County employees in the course of
their employment, and others (including contractors) authorized by the
Director, and persons operating a wheelchair, electric wheelchair, other
handicapped vehicles or an electric personal assistive mobility device are
exempt from this regulation.
   E.   Overnight Camping And Parking: Overnight camping and parking is
prohibited on Ada County Landfill property except as specifically permitted by
the Director or the Board.
   F.   Penalties: Violation of this section
2-8-4 is an infraction, and each such violation is punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). Any vehicle parked in violation of this section may
be cited and/or removed at the expense of the owner. (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
2-8-5: PROHIBITION AGAINST UNCOVERED LOADS:
   A.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle with any load on a roadway on
the Ada County Landfill property unless such load is covered, constructed, or
loaded so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or
otherwise escaping from the vehicle.
   B.   No person shall operate any vehicle with any load on any roadway on the
Ada County Landfill property unless the load and its covering are securely
fastened to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or a
hazard to other users of the roadway.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to a County employee or
contractor dropping sand, gravel, or ice melt to enhance traction, or
sprinkling water or other substances to clean or maintain a roadway. Nor does
this section apply to County employees or contractors performing construction
or other activities at the Ada County Landfill under the authority and/or
direction of the Director or the Board.
   D.   Penalties: A person who violates the provisions of this section
2-8-5 shall be guilty of an infraction and be subject to a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00). For each subsequent violation of this chapter, the fine shall
be increased by twenty-five dollars ($25.00) but shall not exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
2-8-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS TO PROTECT HEALTH, SAFETY, PROPERTY AND HABITAT:
   A.   Public Property: The destruction, injury, defacement, removal or
disturbance of any public building, sign, equipment, monument, statue, marker
or any other structure or any other public property of any kind which is
located at the Ada County Landfill is prohibited. No person shall use the Ada
County Landfill property for access to adjoining or nearby privately owned
property for any purpose, or to construct or install any facility or
improvement upon, over or beneath any Ada County Landfill property without the
consent of the Board.
   B.   Protection Of Wildlife: It shall be unlawful for any person within the
Ada County Landfill to hunt, molest, chase, injure, harm, or kill any animal or
bird. This provision does not apply to depredation efforts undertaken at the
direction of the Director or the Board under a duly authorized permit.
   C.   Public Health: To promote and protect the public health of the
inhabitants of Ada County, it shall be unlawful for any person to excrete human
waste, except in designated restroom facilities, on Ada County Landfill
property.
   D.   Wheeled Devices: No person shall ride or operate a skateboard, roller
skates, scooter, in-line skates, bicycle or other wheeled recreation equipment
on any roadway, trail, concrete sidewalk, curbing, parking lot, hand railing or
other structure or surface at the Ada County Landfill unless done in designated
areas where such wheeled devices are permitted or as expressly permitted by the
Director.
   E.   Aircraft Restrictions: No person shall operate, land, or take off in a
balloon, plane or other aircraft, manned or unmanned, on or above Ada County
Landfill property without written consent from Ada County that authorizes such
activity, except in an emergency or as otherwise specifically permitted by
federal or state law.
   F.   Penalties: Violation of subsections D and E of this section
2-8-6 is an infraction, and each such violation is punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
2-8-7: SOLICITATION, LOITERING AND PET REGULATIONS:
   A.   Solicitation Of Business, Demonstrations, Picketing, Distribution Of
Material, Parade, Rally Prohibited: No person may, or attempt to, for any
purpose, solicit business, demonstrate, picket, distribute any material,
parade, or rally in or on the Ada County Landfill property.
   B.   Loitering Prohibited: No person may loiter in or on the Ada County
Landfill property, unless providing goods or performing services under a
contract with Ada County.
   C.   Pet Policy: Members of the public are prohibited from bringing pets
onto the Ada County Landfill property, with the exception of disability related
service dogs and law enforcement K-9s. Dogs, which are allowed, must be on a
leash. This section does not prohibit pets that are left in vehicles while the
owner/caretaker is conducting lawful business at the Ada County Landfill.
   D.   Penalties: Violation of this section
2-8-7 is an infraction, and each such violation is punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
2-8-8: SMOKING AND ALCOHOL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Open Flames, Smoking Or Other Ignition Devices Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person to smoke cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, cigars, or
pipes, or in any way strike or use matches, cigarette lighters, candles, or
other devices with an open flame within the Ada County Landfill.
   B.   Alcohol: It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or have in his
or her possession any open container of alcoholic liquor, beer, or wine, as
defined in Idaho Code, within the Ada County Landfill. (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
2-8-9: FIRE, FIREWORKS AND FIREARMS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Fires: All fires are prohibited on Ada County Landfill property except
fires for culinary purposes in gas, electric or charcoal grills with prior
special approval of the Director.
   B.   Fireworks: No person shall possess or use fireworks of any kind within
the Ada County Landfill.
   C.   Personal Safety, Weapons Or Firearms: Except upon prior special
approval by the Director, no person, except for authorized law enforcement
personnel, shall discharge firearms, pneumatic weapons, air rifles, spring
guns, bows and arrows, slings, or any other form of weapon. Any permitted
discharge shall not purposefully or negligently endanger, damage, or injure the
property or the life of any person or animal within the Ada County Landfill.
This provision does not apply to depredation efforts undertaken at the
direction of the Director or the Board under a duly authorized permit. (Ord.
966, 12-26-2023)
2-8-10: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person, firm or entity failing to comply with sections
2-8-4 through
2-8-9 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, unless such offense is
specifically designated herein as an infraction and shall be subject to
penalties and punishment as provided in Idaho Code, sections 18-111 and 18-113.
Each such violation shall constitute a separate offense. The above penalties
shall in no way limit the rights of Ada County to file a civil claim against a
violator to collect for damages to Ada County property. (Ord. 966, 12-26-2023)
TITLE 3
BOISE AIR TERMINAL
Chapters 1 – 15 (Rep. by Ord. 232, 3-28-91)
TITLE 4
BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: License Requirements And Exemptions
4-1-4: License Application; Fees; Criminal History Record
4-1-5: Bonds
4-1-6: Review; Investigation; License Issuance; Denials
4-1-7: License Expiration
4-1-8: License Exhibition
4-1-9: Transfer Prohibited
4-1-10: Restrictions
4-1-11: License Revocation
4-1-12: Notice And Hearing On Revocation
4-1-13: Appeals
4-1-14: Violations And Penalty
4-1-15: Severability
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to minimize the unwelcome disturbance of
citizens and the disruption of privacy and to otherwise protect the health,
safety and welfare of residents of the county by regulating, controlling and
licensing door to door solicitors and peddlers. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations, when used in
this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
CHARITABLE: Is defined as, and includes, the words philanthropic, benevolent,
education, civic, cultural, religious or fraternal.
COUNTY CLERK: The office of the Ada County clerk.
PEDDLER: Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
unincorporated areas of Ada County, not having been invited by the occupant
thereof, who sells or offers to sell any commodity or article of any nature.
This definition includes, but is not limited to, any person who solicits orders
and makes deliveries to purchasers.
PEDDLING: All activities ordinarily performed by a peddler as indicated under
the definition of "peddler" in this section.
PERSON: Any natural person or any firm, corporation, association, club, group,
society or other organization.
SOLICITATION: Includes all activities ordinarily performed by a solicitor as
described in the definition of "solicitor" in this section.
SOLICITOR: Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
unincorporated Ada County, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, for
the purpose of taking orders for, or offering to take orders for, goods, wares
or merchandise, or any article for future delivery, or for services to be
performed in the future, or for making, manufacturing or repairing of any
article or thing whatsoever for future delivery. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996)
4-1-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in peddling or soliciting within
the unincorporated areas of Ada County without first securing a license issued
by the county clerk; provided however, that the following are exempted from
these provisions:
   A.   Any organization exempt from taxation under 26 USC 501;
   B.   Any political organization or group seeking funds or membership;
   C.   Any solicitation upon premises owned or occupied by an organization,
group or person upon whose behalf the solicitation is made; and
   D.   Any solicitation in the form of a collection at a regular meeting of a
charitable organization or group. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996)
4-1-4: LICENSE APPLICATION; FEES; CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD:
   A.   The applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the
county clerk an application on the form available through the county clerk's
office, which application shall contain the following information:
      1.   A brief description of the business or activity the applicant
intends to conduct;
      2.   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
If the applicant is a corporation or association, the applicant shall provide
the above information and shall also provide the name or names of all persons
requesting a license to solicit or peddle on its behalf and shall obtain a
license for each such person;
      3.   If an employee or agent of a corporation, the name and address
thereof, with written proof establishing the authority of the employee or
agent;
      4.   Social security or driver's license numbers, if available;
      5.   A comprehensive listing of any and all convictions, guilty pleas,
withheld judgments, or other sentences and other dispositions for any felony or
misdemeanor for violation of an ordinance (other than traffic offenses),
specifying the charge and the date and place of the criminal or other related
proceedings; and
      6.   Two (2) photographs of the applicant, measuring two inches by two
inches (2" x 2"), showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear,
distinguishable manner.
   B.   The application must be accompanied by a fee in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00), for each individual requesting a license. Such fee may be
paid by cash or check made payable to the county clerk.
   C.   The applicant shall submit to the Idaho state police, bureau of
criminal identification, the information, fingerprints, and fees necessary to
obtain the criminal history record of the applicant from the Idaho state police
and the federal bureau of investigation. Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-3008
and public law 92-544, the board of Ada County commissioners is authorized to
submit fingerprints to the Idaho state police, bureau of criminal
identification, and the federal bureau of investigation. The fingerprints of
the applicant shall be taken by the Idaho state police, and such fingerprints
and all information required by this section shall be on the forms prescribed
by the Idaho state police. The county clerk or board of Ada County
commissioners is authorized to receive criminal history information from the
Idaho state police and from the federal bureau of investigation for the purpose
of evaluating the fitness of applicants for a peddler's and solicitor's
license. As required by state and federal law, further dissemination or other
use of the criminal history information is prohibited. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996;
amd. Ord. 771, 3-15-2011)
4-1-5: BONDS:
Before any license as provided herein shall be issued, each applicant shall
file with the county clerk a bond in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in the form of a surety bond, cashier's check or a letter of credit
from a financial institution running to the county clerk. Every business
association, company or corporation which has one or more employees or agents
acting in the capacity of peddler or solicitor shall file with the county clerk
a bond covering all such employees or agents in the amount of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each employee or agent to a maximum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00).
An action on the bond, cashier's check or letter of credit may be brought by
Ada County for a licensee's failure to comply with any provision of this
chapter.
Upon expiration of the license, the county clerk shall return the bond,
cashier's check or letter of credit within ninety (90) days after receipt of a
written request for its return, unless the county clerk has been notified that
any provision of this chapter has not been complied with or that Ada County has
brought an action on the bond. If the county clerk receives such notice, the
bond, cashier's check or letter of credit shall not be returned to the
licensee, except as directed by a court. Forfeiture of the bond is a civil
remedy and does not foreclose the possibility of criminal prosecution and
punishment as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996; amd.
Ord. 754, 6-29-2010)
4-1-6: REVIEW; INVESTIGATION; LICENSE ISSUANCE; DENIALS:
Upon receipt of the application or license renewal and required fee, the county
clerk will cause the application to be reviewed and conduct an investigation.
All approvals shall be made by the county clerk and the board of Ada County
commissioners.
The county clerk or the board of Ada County commissioners shall deny an
application for a license under this chapter where:
   A.   The application is incomplete or the required application materials or
fees have not been submitted;
   B.   The application contains any misrepresentation or false statement;
   C.   The applicant has violated any provision of this chapter within the
five (5) years preceding the date of submission of the application;
   D.   The applicant has been convicted of, pled guilty to, received a
withheld judgment for, been subject to a deferred prosecution or prosecutor
probation for, or otherwise sentenced or received a similar disposition for:
      1.   Any misdemeanor charge involving theft or fraud within the five (5)
years preceding the date of submission of the application, or any felony charge
of theft or fraud within the fifteen (15) years preceding the date of
submission of the application;
      2.   A misdemeanor charge of battery, assault, domestic battery or
assault, telephone harassment, stalking, or violation of a protective order
within the five (5) years preceding the date of submission of the application,
or a felony charge of battery, assault, domestic battery or assault, telephone
harassment, stalking, or violation of a protective order within the ten (10)
years preceding the date of submission of the application;
      3.   Any crime involving, or related to, firearms or other weapons;
      4.   Any crime or infraction related to peddling or solicitation in this
or any other jurisdiction;
      5.   Any crime involving, or related to, a child or children, elderly
persons, and/or other vulnerable persons;
      6.   Any crime involving, or related to, prostitution, indecent exposure,
obscene conduct, or other sexual conduct or activity; or
      7.   Any crime involving, or related to, drugs or illicit substances.
   E.   The applicant is or at any time has been required by any law or court
order to register as a sex offender.
Denial shall be noted on the application and the applicant shall be notified in
writing sent to the address provided thereon. The county clerk shall also
notify the applicant of the right to appeal on denial, pursuant to section
4-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996; amd. Ord. 771, 3-15-2011)
4-1-7: LICENSE EXPIRATION:
All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year from the
date of issuance. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996)
4-1-8: LICENSE EXHIBITION:
The license issued pursuant to this chapter must be worn or otherwise exhibited
in a conspicuous way during solicitation or peddling. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996)
4-1-9: TRANSFER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any license issued, pursuant to this chapter, to be
transferred to a party other than the licensee. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996)
4-1-10: RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions shall apply to peddling and soliciting in
unincorporated Ada County:
   A.   Hours Restriction: Peddlers and solicitors shall only engage in their
activities between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M. A special permit may be sought by licensed peddlers and solicitors, in
which case the board of Ada County commissioners may grant an exception to this
subsection.
   B.   Prohibited Areas: The board of Ada County commissioners may, from time
to time, prohibit the activities allowed under this chapter if it determines
such prohibitions are necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   C.   Child Labor Restrictions: Restrictions relating to minimum age as set
forth in the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act, 29 USC
section 201 et seq. (1938), as amended, and the child labor law of Idaho, Idaho
Code section 44-1301 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted and constitute
restrictions under this chapter.
   D.   Premises Restriction: Peddlers and solicitors shall not enter upon any
premises when the same is posted with a sign stating "No Peddlers Allowed" or
"No Solicitation Allowed" or other words to such effect.
(Ord. 318, 10-19-1996; amd. Ord. 754, 6-29-2010; amd. Ord. 987, 12-23-2024)
4-1-11: LICENSE REVOCATION:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the county clerk
or board of Ada County commissioners on any of the following grounds:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the application;
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made by the licensee in the
course of conducting solicitation or peddling activities;
   C.   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities contrary to the
provisions of this chapter;
   D.   Conducting peddling or soliciting activities in such a manner as to
create a public nuisance, constitute a breach of the peace or endanger the
health, safety, or general welfare of the general public;
   E.   The licensee has been convicted of, pled guilty to, received a withheld
judgment for, been subject to a deferred prosecution or prosecutor probation
for, or otherwise sentenced or received a similar disposition for:
      1.   Any charge involving theft or fraud;
      2.   Battery, assault, domestic battery or assault, telephone harassment,
stalking, or violation of a protective order;
      3.   Any crime involving, or related to, firearms or other weapons;
      4.   Any crime involving, or related to, a child or children, elderly
persons, and/or other vulnerable persons;
      5.   Any crime or infraction related to peddling or solicitation in this
or any other jurisdiction;
      6.   Any crime involving, or related to, prostitution, indecent exposure,
obscene conduct, or other sexual conduct or activity; or
      7.   Any crime involving, or related to, drugs or illicit substances; or
   F.   The applicant is or at any time has been required by any law or court
order to register as a sex offender.
The board of county commissioners shall consider a petition for the revocation
of a license submitted by any person claiming a violation of any provision of
this chapter. If, after review of said petition for revocation of a license,
the board of county commissioners determines that the allegations contained
therein are true and correct, it may take the appropriate action to revoke that
license. Notice and hearing on the revocation of a license pursuant to a
petition shall be the same as provided in section 
4-1-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996; amd. Ord. 754, 6-29-2010; amd.
Ord. 771, 3-15-2011)
4-1-12: NOTICE AND HEARING ON REVOCATION:
Notice of a hearing for revocation of a license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be provided in writing and shall set forth specifically the grounds for
the proposed revocation and the time and place for hearing. Notice shall be
mailed to the licensee at the address shown on the license application or last
known address.
The revocation hearing shall be before the board of Ada County commissioners
who shall take evidence with regard to the grounds for a revocation. (Ord. 318,
10-19-1996)
4-1-13: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any action of the county clerk or board of Ada County
commissioners taken pursuant to this chapter, shall have the right to appeal
such action or decision to the board of Ada County commissioners within
fourteen (14) days after the notice of the action has been mailed to the person
(s), corporation(s) or organization(s) addressed as shown on the application.
An appeal may be taken by filing a written statement setting forth the grounds
for the appeal with the county clerk or board of Ada County commissioners.
A hearing shall be sent no later than twenty (20) days from the date of receipt
of the party's written statement, with the notice and time of the hearing to be
provided in the same manner as provided herein. (Ord. 318, 10-19-1996)
4-1-14: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be treated as a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine as provided by Idaho Code,
section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled or by
imprisonment in the Ada County Jail for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days. Each day or violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
considered a separate offense, punishable as described herein. (Ord. 318, 10-
19-1996; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
4-1-15: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared severable. In the event any
section is found to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such will
not affect the validity of the remaining sections contained herein. (Ord. 318,
10-19-1996)
CHAPTER 2
PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title And Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Application Of Regulations
4-2-4: License Required
4-2-5: License Fees, Term
4-2-6: Records Of Transactions
4-2-7: Holding Period
4-2-8: Inspection Of Premises
4-2-9: Juveniles, Restrictions Concerning
4-2-10: Prohibitions
4-2-11: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-2-12: Penalties
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This Chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY PRECIOUS METAL DEALER
LICENSING ACT, and is intended to provide for the regulation of dealers buying
used jewelry, money, silverware or precious metal in the course of business so
as to provide protection for the private property of the citizens of Ada
County. (Ord. 118, 8-28-1981)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
MONEY: Items of numismatic value.
PRECIOUS GEMS: Gems such as diamonds, sapphires, rubies, pearls and emeralds.
PRECIOUS METAL: Gold, silver, platinum, or any combination thereof, whether in
manufactured, alloyed or any other form.
PRECIOUS METAL DEALER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, and any
principal, employee or agent thereof, regularly engaged in or conducting
business for the purpose, sale, trade or exchange of precious metals, used
jewelry, money, silverware, gems or semi-precious gems.
SEMI-PRECIOUS GEMS: Gems such as jade, tanzanite, tsavorite, garnets,
aquamarines, turquoise, opals and other gems of lower value than those
classified as precious.
SILVERWARE: Silver or silverplated flatware, trays, goblets, dishes or serving
pieces.
USED JEWELRY: Previously owned articles of personal adornment including but not
limited to watches, rings, pendants, chains, brooches and necklaces which are
not purchased or sold as new and which are composed in whole or in part of
precious metals and which may contain diamonds, sapphires, rubies, pearls,
emeralds, other precious gems or semi-precious gems.
4-2-3: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   This Chapter shall be applicable to the principals of any entity
performing any activity regulated by this Chapter and to their agents and
employees and to persons forming a partnership for the purpose of engaging in
any activity subject to regulation by this Chapter. Every dealer regulated
hereunder shall be liable for all the penalties provided herein for violation
for any provision of this Chapter, whether such violation be committed by
himself or his agent, clerk or employee.
   B.   Exemptions: This Chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Licensed pawnbrokers.
      2.   Any person who, solely as a hobby, collects coins or other money of
numismatic value or any other item specified in Section
4-2-2 and who purchases, sells or exchanges such items in pursuit of that
hobby.
      3.   Persons or transactions associated with bona fide trade shows or
conventions where all transactions of purchase, sale or exchange are made in
connection with such trade shows or conventions and within the confines of the
trade show or convention site.
      4.   The purchase or receipt of any item regulated by this Chapter by one
precious metal dealer from another, provided that the item, if originally
obtained from one other than a dealer, has been registered and retained for the
ten (10) day period as required hereunder.
4-2-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
precious metal dealer unless a valid license therefor has been issued as herein
provided and said license is in full force and effect.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Sheriff shall cause
an investigation to be made of the applicant or applicants. Such investigation
shall be completed within thirty (30) days.
   C.   No person shall be issued a license to engage in the business of a
precious metal dealer when that person:
      1.   Is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      2.   Is not the bona fide owner of such business;
      3.   Has had a similar license revoked by this County or any other county
of this State or of the United States or any other state of the United States
within the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the
application;
      4.   Has been convicted of any felony, or has been convicted of any other
crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude within the five
(5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application; or
      5.   Has misrepresented or made a false or fraudulent statement of
material or relevant facts contained in the application.
   D.   An affirmative showing with respect to the qualifications herein
specified shall be required to be made with respect to each applicant and to
each partner of a partnership applicant and to each officer, director or member
of the governing board of a corporation or association applicant.
   E.   Upon completion of the investigation, the Ada County Clerk shall notify
the applicant whether his license request is approved and upon payment of the
prescribed license fee shall issue a license. Such license shall show the name
and address of said licensee, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and
the date of expiration.
   F.   The Ada County Clerk shall notify the applicant if his license request
is disapproved, the reasons thereof and advise him of the appeal procedure.
   G.   Licenses shall not be transferable, either as to person or place. The
license issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously in each place of
business named therein.
4-2-5: LICENSE FEES, TERM:
The license fee for an established precious metal dealer shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per year, except that any application submitted after July 1 of any
year shall be accompanied by a license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). The
license to conduct the business of an established precious metal dealer shall
expire on December 31 of each year. Renewal of the license and payment of the
license fee shall be made on or before January 1 of the year for which such
renewal is desired.
4-2-6: RECORDS OF TRANSACTIONS:
Every precious metal dealer shall keep a tightly bound book, not looseleaf,
with pages numbered in sequence, at his principal place of business. Entries
shall be made at the time of any purchase, exchange or receipt of an item for
sale or resale on consignment and shall be written in ink. This record shall be
kept three (3) years after the date of each transaction recorded therein. The
record shall contain the following information:
   A.   The date of the transaction;
   B.   The name of the person or employee conducting the transaction;
   C.   The name, age, sex, driver's license number, vehicle license number,
street address and general description of the person with whom the transaction
was made including race, height, color of hair and complexion;
   D.   The name and street address of the owner of the property;
   E.   A complete description of the property including, but not limited to,
the type of item, the brand name, the type and approximate weight of the
precious metals of which it is composed, the types of gems or stones in the
item, their points, weight and/or carats, if available, any letters or other
identifying marks inscribed thereon and such other information as may be
necessary to distinguish the item from others of similar character;
   F.   The price paid by the dealer; and
   G.   The signature of the person selling or consigning the property. (Ord.
118, 8-28-1981)
4-2-7: HOLDING PERIOD:
Precious metal dealers acquiring precious metals not in the form of bulk or
bullion shall be required to hold the precious metals at their business
location for a period of not less than ten (10) days from the date of the
acquisition. No dealer shall sell, melt, change the form of or dispose of any
article received by him, of which he is required to make record and report
under this chapter, within such time period. All such articles shall be
retained in his possession at the location specified in the license required
herein during the ten (10) day period. (Ord. 118, 8-28-1981)
4-2-8: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Every precious metal dealer shall admit to his premises, during regular
business hours, the Ada County Sheriff or his authorized deputies to examine
the record of transactions specified in section
4-2-6 of this chapter, as well as articles purchased or received. (Ord. 118, 8-
28-1981)
4-2-9: JUVENILES, RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING:
In the event of a transaction with a person under eighteen (18) years of age, a
cosignature of a parent or legal guardian, signed in the presence of the
precious metals dealer, is required. (Ord. 118, 8-28-1981)
4-2-10: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any precious metal dealer to:
      1.   Acquire, by purchase, barter, exchange or otherwise, goods bearing
evidence of a serial number which has been tampered with or scratched or
obliterated in any manner unless such person immediately contacts the Ada
County Sheriff's Office.
      2.   Accept, buy or exchange any articles prior to examining the
identifying credentials of the person pawning, selling or exchanging said
articles.
      3.   Fail to maintain the record required under section
4-2-6 of this chapter or fail to make any entry of any information required
under said section
4-2-6 of this chapter in the record of any transaction.
      4.   Make any false entry in the record required by section
4-2-6 of this chapter.
      5.   Falsify, obliterate or destroy the record required by section
4-2-6 of this chapter.
      6.   Refuse to allow the Ada County Sheriff or his authorized deputies to
inspect the record required by section
4-2-6 of this chapter or any goods in his possession during regular business
hours.
      7.   Fail to report to the Ada County Sheriff's Office the receipt of any
property which he has good cause to believe has been lost or stolen, together
with the name of the owner, if known, and the date when, and the name of the
person from whom, the property was received.
      8.   Report any material matter falsely to a law enforcement officer.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious
address, or any address other than the true address, or to furnish any false,
untrue or misleading information or statement relating to the information
required by section
4-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 118, 8-28-1981; amd. Ord. 896, 5-21-2019)
4-2-11: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Ada County Commissioners shall have the power to revoke or suspend
any license granted in accordance with this chapter for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business of a precious metal dealer;
      3.   Any other violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any felony or misdemeanor involving fraud, theft,
dishonesty, or receiving or possessing stolen property, or any other crime
involving moral turpitude.
   B.   Prior to any revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be granted
the opportunity for a public hearing before the Ada County Commissioners which
hearing shall be held not later than fourteen (14) days after written notice to
the licensee of intent to revoke or suspend. Such notice shall specify the
date, time and place of hearing and shall be delivered to the licensee
personally or mailed to the licensee at the address set forth in the license
application. If, after such public hearing, the County Commissioners determine
that one or more of the grounds for revocation exists, they shall revoke the
license. The decision of the County Commissioners shall be final. (Ord. 118, 8-
28-1981)
4-2-12: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by
Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or
retitled. (Ord. 118, 8-28-1981; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title And Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Exceptions To Regulations
4-3-4: Licenses Required
4-3-5: Application For License
4-3-6: Issuance Of Licenses
4-3-7: Qualifications For Issuance Of License
4-3-8: Continuance Of Qualifications
4-3-9: Issuance Of Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit
4-3-10:    Location Restrictions And Discretionary Conditions On Licenses
4-3-11:    Retailers' License Fees
4-3-12:    Expiration, Renewal Of Licenses
4-3-13:    Transfer Of License
4-3-14:    Operating Hours
4-3-15:    Inspections, Access To Premises
4-3-16:    Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-3-17:    Penalty
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the issuance of
alcoholic beverage licenses and licensing fees; to provide regulations; and to
establish procedures for renewal, suspension, revocation or termination of such
licenses and issuance of alcohol beverage catering permits. (Ord. 107, 10-29-
1980; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing alcohol which is a product of
distillation of any fermented liquor, or synthetic ethyl alcohol, including
beer, wine, spirits, or any liquid containing alcohol, beer, wine or spirits.
BEER: Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water,
containing not more than four percent (4%) alcohol by weight.
BOTTLED BEER: Beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly and adequately
sealed in a glass, metal or other container of a capacity not to exceed two (2)
gallons.
DESSERT WINE: Wines that contain more than sixteen percent (16%) alcohol by
volume, but do not exceed twenty-four percent (24%) alcohol by volume.
DRAFT BEER: Beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly and adequately
sealed in a glass, metal or other container of a capacity exceeding two (2)
gallons.
LICENSE: A license issued by Ada County to a qualified person, under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and/or dispense alcoholic beverages,
as provided by this chapter.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
LIQUOR: Any alcoholic beverage other than beer or wine.
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK LICENSE: License to sell liquor by the drink at retail
under the provisions of this chapter.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
PREMISES: The business place in which the sale of any alcoholic beverage is
authorized under the provisions of this chapter.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license authorizing a person to sell wine at retail for
consumption off the licensed premises.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages
to the consumer.
TABLE WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than sixteen percent
(16%) alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar whether or
not other ingredients are added.
WINE: Includes table wine and dessert wine, unless the context requires
otherwise.
WINE BY THE DRINK LICENSE: A license to sell wine by the individual glass or
open bottle at retail for consumption on the premises only.
WINERY: A place, premises, or establishment for the manufacture or bottling of
table wine or dessert wine for sale. Two (2) or more wineries may use the same
premises and the same equipment to manufacture their respective wines, to the
extent permitted by law.
WINERY LICENSE: A license to maintain a winery.
All other words and phrases used in this chapter, the definitions of which are
not herein given, shall be given their ordinary, commonly understood and
accepted meanings. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; Ord. 903,
10-15-2019)
4-3-3: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the state liquor dispensary
from acting pursuant to the Idaho liquor  act 1 . (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; Ord.
903, 10-15-2019)  
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 23.
4-3-4: LICENSES REQUIRED:
Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit the board of Ada County
commissioners' authority under the Idaho Code, title 23, chapter 9 or 10 as may
from time to time be amended and/or retitled.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages at retail for
consumption on or off the premises within the boundary of Ada County until a
license is granted by the board of county commissioners as provided by this
chapter. It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic beverages at retail for
consumption on or off the premises within Ada County after a license has been
revoked or during the suspension of such license. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd.
Ord. 616, 4-18-2006; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall file with the
county clerk a completed application in the form and in the manner prescribed
by the county clerk, signed by the applicant and containing information and
statements relative to the applicant and the premises (in existence or to be
constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the county)
where the alcoholic beverages are to be sold. The applicant shall certify under
penalty of perjury pursuant to the law of the State of Idaho that the contents
of the application are true and correct and shall verify his or her identity to
the satisfaction of the county clerk or his designee by providing a copy of the
applicant's driver's license or other form of government-issued photo
identification and through any other additional means that the county clerk or
his designee may reasonable rely on. In addition to setting forth the
qualifications required by other provisions of this chapter, the applicant must
show:
      1.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is
sought, its location and street address.
      2.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on, in or upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, trusts or any other basis other than open trade accounts incurred in
the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such interest.
      3.   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then
a certified copy of a document showing that the owner consents to the sale of
alcoholic beverages on such premises.
      4.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all
members of a partnership or association, or the officers and members of the
governing board and the principal stockholders of a corporation.
   B.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of this section, the licensee shall
forthwith make a verified report of such change to the county clerk.
   C.   Applications for liquor by the drink, retail wine and/or wine by the
drink licenses shall include a copy of the beer license issued by the county
and by the director of the Idaho state police for the premises and for the time
for which the application is made. Applications for a winery license do not
require a beer license to sell wine on the winery's original licensed premises
or at locations other than the winery's original licensed premises.
   D.   If any false statement is made in any part of an application, or any
subsequent report, the applicant, or applicants, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided by Idaho
Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled or
imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days or both.
   E.   Each application shall be accompanied by the required license fee,
which shall be returned to the applicant if the board of county commissioners
refuses to issue the license.
(Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 478, 1-14-2003; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006; amd.
Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 903, 10-15-2019; amd. Ord. 994, 1-27-2025)
4-3-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
The Board of County commissioners shall duly consider and evaluate all new
applications and renewal applications for a license to sell or dispense
alcoholic beverages at retail, and requests for license transfers, and after so
evaluating, shall determine to grant or deny each application in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. New applications shall be submitted to the
sheriff of Ada County for review, and its assessment of each application shall
be considered by the board of county commissioners prior to its decision. Once
a completed application, renewal, or request for a transfer has been submitted
to the board of county commissioners, the board of county commissioners shall
have no longer than one hundred twenty (120) days to make a decision on a
complete application, renewal or request for a transfer. If the board of county
commissioners so orders, the county clerk shall issue a license to the
applicant, which license or licenses shall at all times be prominently
displayed in the place of business of the licensee and shall be issued only for
the particular premises therein described. Separate beer, retail wine, wine by
the drink and liquor by the drink licenses shall be required for each premises,
except that retailers holding valid licenses for the retail sale of liquor by
the drink may sell wine for consumption on or off the licensed premises.
Licensed wineries shall by considered as holding, for the purposes of selling a
product processed and bottled by and for that winery, a valid retail wine and
wine by the drink license for the licensed premises and for use at functions
and events as permitted by state law. If the board of county commissioners
denies an application for a new license, renewal or license transfer, it shall
state, in writing, the statutes and/or ordinances used in evaluating the
application, the reasons for the denial, and the actions, if any, that the
applicant can take to obtain the license, renewal or transfer thereof. The
applicant may, within twenty eight (28) days, appeal the board of county
commissioners' determination, in writing, and request a due process hearing to
reconsider the denial. The board of county commissioners may, upon a showing of
good cause, after a public hearing on the matter, grant a license that would
otherwise be prohibited under the provisions of this chapter. The applicant may
appeal the decision of the board of county commissioners in accordance with
chapter 15, title 31, Idaho Code.(Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 616, 4-18-
2006; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 825, 5-20-2014; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-7: QUALIFICATIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   No license shall be issued to:
      1.   Any applicant who, at the time of the application, is not twenty one
(21) years of age or older, if the applicant is an individual.
      2.   Any applicant who is not the bona fide owner of such retail
business.
      3.   Any applicant who is not a bona fide resident of the state of Idaho
for at least thirty (30) days preceding the date of the application for a
license and has documentation of his/her legal residence in the United States;
provided, that if the applicant is:
         a.   A partnership, at least one of the partners shall have been a
bona fide resident of the state of Idaho for thirty (30) days prior to the date
of application, shall have documentation of his/her legal residence in the
United States, and shall be twenty one (21) years of age or older.
         b.   A corporation or association, it must be organized under the laws
of the state of Idaho or qualified under the laws of the state of Idaho to do
business in the state and the person who is, or who will be, the manager of the
corporation's or association's business of selling alcoholic beverages, shall
have been a bona fide resident of the state of Idaho for at least thirty (30)
days prior to the date of application, shall have documentation of his/her
legal residence in the United States, and shall be twenty one (21) years of age
or older.
      4.   Any applicant who, within three (3) years immediately preceding the
date of filing the application, has been convicted or paid any fine, received a
deferred sentence or withheld judgment, suffered the forfeiture of a bond for
failure to appear, or completed any sentence of confinement for the violation
of any law or regulation of the state of Idaho, any other local or state
government, or of the United States regulating, governing or prohibiting the
sale, manufacture, transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages or
intoxicating liquors; or within three (3) years immediately preceding the date
of filing the application, if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or
association, any of its employees, officers or members of the governing board
or body, have been or the entity itself has been convicted or paid any fine,
has received a deferred sentence or withheld judgment, has suffered the
forfeiture of a bond for failure to appear, or has completed any sentence of
confinement for the violation of any law of the state of Idaho, any other
state, or of the United States regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale,
manufacture, transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages or
intoxicating liquors.
      5.   Any applicant who, within five (5) years immediately preceding the
filing of the application, has been convicted of any felony or completed any
sentence of confinement therefor within said time, and who has not paid in full
all court ordered fines and/or restitution in connection with said felony or
any other court case within the jurisdiction of the 4th judicial district of
Idaho.
      6.   Any applicant who, if an individual, within three (3) years
immediately preceding the date of filing the application, has had any license
provided for herein, or any license or permit issued pursuant to the laws of
this state, or any other state, or of the United States, to sell, manufacture,
transport or possess alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors, revoked.
      7.   Any individual applicant; or, if a partnership or association, any
of its partners; or, if a corporation, any of its employees, officers or
members of its governing board or body, engaged in the operation of, or having
a financial interest in, any house or place for the purpose of prostitution, or
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.
      8.   Any individual applicant who has had a license to sell alcoholic
beverages at retail revoked by this county or any county of this state, any
city of this state or the state of Idaho; or was a member of a partnership or
association whose license to sell alcoholic beverages at retail was revoked by
this county or any county of this state, any city of this state or the state of
Idaho; or was an employee, officer or member of the governing board, or one of
the principal stockholders of a corporation, whose license to sell alcoholic
beverages at retail was revoked by this county or any county of this state, any
city of this state or the state of Idaho, within three (3) years immediately
preceding the date of filing the application.
      9.   Any applicant who does not possess a current beer license under this
chapter, in the case of any application for a retail wine, a wine by the drink
or a liquor by the drink license.
   B.   The affirmative showing required with respect to qualifications of an
applicant shall be required to be made with respect to each partner of a
partnership applicant and to each incumbent officer, director or member of the
governing board of a corporation or association applicant, and to each person
then employed by an applicant whose duties include the serving or dispensing of
alcoholic beverages or supervising the serving or dispensing of alcoholic
beverages. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 142, 9-18-1985; amd. Ord. 172, 5-
21-1987, eff. 6-17-1987; amd. Ord. 616, 4-18-2006; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012;
Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-8: CONTINUANCE OF QUALIFICATIONS:
A retail licensee must continue throughout the license period to have all of
the qualifications and none of the disqualifications provided for in this
chapter. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-9: ISSUANCE OF ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of an alcohol beverage catering permit, the
applicant shall file with the county clerk an application, in writing, signed
by the applicant, containing the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant and the number of his/her
state liquor, beer or wine license.
      2.   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective, not
to exceed five (5) consecutive days.
      3.   The names of the organizations, groups or persons sponsoring the
event.
      4.   The address at which the alcoholic beverage(s) are to be served, and
if a public building, the rooms in which the alcoholic beverage(s) are to be
served.
   B.   The county clerk, upon receipt of the application, and a nonrefundable
fee in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each day the permit is to be
effective, shall forward to the sheriff for a recommendation. The sheriff shall
consider issues of public safety relevant to the applicant's proposed event in
making his recommendation. The board of county commissioners shall duly
consider and evaluate the application and the sheriff's recommendation and
shall approve, condition or deny the application in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, and indicate that decision, by a signed endorsement
on the application. A copy of the endorsed application shall be delivered to
the sheriff and the applicant and shall constitute a valid alcoholic beverage
catering permit. (Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS AND DISCRETIONARY CONDITIONS ON LICENSES:
   A.   A license to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption upon the premises
of an establishment located within an unincorporated area of Ada County may not
be granted unless the applicant obtains the written consent of at least seventy
five percent (75%) of the resident owners of property, or if not occupied or
inhabited by a resident owner, the occupant of such property, within a radius
of one thousand feet (1,000') of any part of the premises upon which alcoholic
beverages are to be sold for consumption. At the time the application is
submitted to the county clerk, no signature may be over one hundred eighty
(180) days old. The written consent shall be filed with the application for a
license; provided, however, that the consent of owners or occupants of property
shall not be required to renew or to transfer such license. Where the required
written consent of at least seventy five percent (75%) of the resident owners/
occupants of property within a radius of one thousand feet (1,000') of any part
of the premises upon which alcoholic beverages are to be sold for consumption
is not obtained, the board of county commissioners, upon a showing of good
cause, and upon a finding that the applicant has met all other requirements for
licensure under this chapter, may issue the license or condition the license in
accordance with subsection D of this section.
   B.   No license shall be granted unless a certificate of zoning has been
issued by the Ada County zoning department if the establishment is not within
an incorporated city. The zoning certificate shall be filed with the
application for a license; provided, however, that the zoning certificate shall
not be required to renew or transfer a license, unless a zoning certificate was
not obtained when the license was originally issued, in which case a zoning
certificate is required prior to renewal or transfer of the license.
   C.   A license to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption upon the premises
of an establishment located within an unincorporated area of Ada County may not
be granted where the nearest entrance to the licensed premises is within three
hundred feet (300') of any part of a public school or any church or other place
of worship, measured in a straight line; provided that this limitation shall
not apply to any duly licensed premises that, at the time of licensing, was not
within a restricted area. Where the nearest entrance to the licensed premises
is within three hundred feet (300') of any part of a public school or any
church or other place of worship, the board of county commissioners, upon a
showing of good cause, and upon a finding that the applicant has met all other
requirements for licensure under this chapter, may issue the license or
condition the license in accordance with subsection D of this section.
   D.   Licenses or an alcohol beverage catering permit may be conditioned,
upon good cause, by the board of county commissioners in any reasonable manner
that would benefit or protect the public safety, welfare or interest.
   E.   When the board of county commissioners is contemplating conditioning a
license or an alcohol beverage catering permit, it will give notice to the
applicant or licensee of the reason or reasons for the condition and the
applicant or licensee shall have fourteen (14) calendar days to respond in
writing informing the board of county commissioners of any reasons why such a
condition should not be placed upon the license or alcohol beverage catering
permit and providing any supporting information. No hearing shall be required
unless the board of county commissioners chooses in its sole discretion to hold
a hearing. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 142, 9-18-1985; amd. Ord. 616, 4-
18-2006; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 810, 8-6-2013; amd. Ord. 825, 5-
20-2014; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-11: RETAILERS' LICENSE FEES: 
License fees, to be collected by the county clerk, shall be as follows:
Beer:
   For bottled beer, none of which is consumed on the premises where sold - per$25.00
annum
   For bottled beer, where such beer may be consumed on the premises where sold$75.00
per annum
   For draft beer and bottled beer, or draft beer only, for consumption on or o$100.00
the premises - per annum
Liquor by the drink:
   For liquor by the drink, the fee shall be 25 percent of the amount of the
license fee collected by the director of the Idaho state police pursuant to the    
provisions of Idaho Code, chapter 9, title 23
Wine:
   For a retail wine license, where wine is sold only in closed containers, wit$100.00
no consumption on the premises - per annum
   For a wine by the drink license, where wine is sold by the individual glass $100.00
open bottle at retail for consumption on the premises only - per annum
   For a retail wine license for wine sold in closed containers for consumption
off premises or for wine by the drink or open bottle at retail for consumption on $100.00
the premises - per annum
Winery:
   For a winery where wine is sold at retail or by the drink - per annum       $100.00
 
(Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 478, 1-14-2003; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; Ord.
903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-12: EXPIRATION, RENEWAL OF LICENSES:  
All licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire at
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on May 31, unless a different designated renewal month
is determined by the director of the Idaho state police pursuant to Idaho Code,
chapter 9, title 23 as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled.
Renewal of the license shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by the county
clerk. Renewal forms shall be submitted together with the required license fee
and an affidavit verifying that the information contained in the original
application is unchanged, or if there are material changes, indicating such
changes. Renewal applications must be received by the board of county
commissioners on or before the first day of the designated renewal month;
provided, however, any licensee holding a valid license who fails to file an
application for renewal of his current license on or before the first day of
the designated renewal month shall have a grace period of an additional thirty
one (31) days in which to file an application for renewal of his license and
during which time he shall not be permitted to sell or dispense alcoholic
beverages. The board of county commissioners shall have no longer than one
hundred twenty (120) days to make a decision on a complete license application,
renewal or request for a transfer. Should the board of county commissioners be
in the process of considering revocation, suspension, or refusal to renew any
alcoholic beverage license, the board of county commissioners may, in its sole
discretion, continue the applicant's current license or issue a temporary
license until the board of county commissioners has made a decision on
revocation or suspension of a license. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 142, 9-
18-1985; amd. Ord. 478, 1-14-2003; amd. Ord. 616, 4-18-2006; amd. Ord. 795, 2-
21-2012; amd. Ord. 903, 10-15-2019; amd. Ord. 906, 1-14-2020) 
4-3-13: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   No license may be transferred to another person, including an executor,
administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the licensee, unless
the transferee shall first have obtained the approval of the board of county
commissioners to such transfer upon application containing substantially the
same information required of an applicant for a license. If the transferee
possesses all of the qualifications and none of the disqualifications for such
a license, the board shall approve the transfer, which approval shall be
attached and made a part of the license. Prior to a decision on a denial or
approval of said transfer by the board of county commissioners, the sheriff of
Ada County shall review the transfer application, and his assessment shall be
considered by the board of county commissioners before they make their
determination. The fee for the transfer of a beer license shall be five dollars
($5.00) which fee shall accompany the application for a transfer.
   B.   Application to transfer a license from one location to another shall be
made to the board of county commissioners on forms prescribed and furnished by
the county clerk. Such a transfer shall not be approved unless the application
procedure for a new license has been complied with. In addition, before an
existing license may be transferred to a new location, the applicant must
satisfy all requirements of the Ada County zoning ordinance1. (Ord. 107, 10-29-
1980; amd. Ord. 214, 1-29-1990; amd. Ord. 225, 7-19-1990; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-
2012; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-14: OPERATING HOURS:
   A.   Beer And Wine:
      1.   No beer or wine shall be sold, dispensed or given away on the
licensed premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M.
   B.   Liquor:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away or consume
or permit or allow to be consumed, any liquor upon any licensed premises
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
      2.   Sale of liquor by the drink on any Sunday which does not fall on
Christmas Day, and sale of liquor by the drink on Memorial Day and Thanksgiving
shall be allowed in Ada County. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 153, 6-25-
1986; amd. Ord. 172, 5-21-1987, eff. 7-1-1987; amd. Ord. 478, 1-14-2003; amd.
Ord. 663, 4-10-2007; amd. Ord. 698, 6-24-2008; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; Ord.
903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-15: INSPECTIONS, ACCESS TO PREMISES:  
The sheriff and all deputy sheriffs of the County of Ada shall have the right
at any time to enter in and upon such licensed premises, and it shall be
unlawful to refuse any deputy sheriff admittance to or access to such premises
for the purpose of police patrol, regulation and inspection of such premises.
(Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
4-3-16: PROCEDURE FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:  
If the board of county commissioners shall find that a licensee has made any
false material statement in the application for a license, or did not have, or
has not retained, the qualifications for a retailer, or has acquired a
disqualification for a retailer, or is in violation of any of the provisions of
Idaho Code, title 23, chapters 10 and/or 9, as may from time to time be amended
and/or retitled, or any provision of the Idaho Code that permits revocation or
suspension of a retailer's license, or the conditions placed upon that
particular license, the board of county commissioners shall suspend or revoke
such retailer's license; notice thereof shall be given, and proceedings to
contest said determination allowed by filing an order to show cause addressed
to the board of county commissioners, requiring the commissioners to appear in
response thereto. Service of the order to show cause shall be made upon the
chairman of the board of county commissioners, and proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of a license shall be in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 52, title 67, Idaho Code, as may from time to time be
amended and/or retitled. Upon a final determination by the board of county
commissioners to suspend or revoke any retailer's license, the board of county
commissioners shall provide written notice of said suspension or revocation to
any other licensing authority which has licensed the involved licensee. (Ord.
107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 616, 4-18-2006; amd. Ord. 795, 2-21-2012; Ord. 903,
10-15-2019)
4-3-17: PENALTY:  
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as
provided by Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended
and/or retitled or thirty (30) days in the county jail or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 107, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006; amd. Ord. 795,
2-21-2012; Ord. 903, 10-15-2019)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
(Rep. by Ord. 680, 12-11-2007)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS  1
(Rep. by Ord. 423, 4-10-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 41-1-81, 10-14-1981; Ord. 41-2-82, 6-30-
  1982; 1984 Code; Ord. 341, 9-2-1997; Ord. 420, 3-13-2001.
CHAPTER 6
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Short Title And Purpose
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Allocation Of Revenues
4-6-4: Automatic Dialing Device Restrictions
4-6-5: Alarm Procedures And Regulations
4-6-6: Intentional Falsification Prohibited
4-6-7: False Alarm, Special Service Fee
4-6-8: Enforcement And Penalties
4-6-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY ALARM ORDINANCE. The
purpose of this chapter is to protect the law enforcement and emergency
services of the County from misuse. (Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd. Ord. 249, 6-25-
1992)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter, the definitions of which are not
herein given, shall be given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted
meaning.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged to
signal the occurrence and illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent
attention, and to which law enforcement officers are expected to respond,
provided this chapter is not applicable to audible alarms affixed to motor
vehicles, nor to fire alarm systems.
ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind in control of any residence, building, structure or
facility wherein an alarm system is installed.
AUDIBLE ALARM: Any device designed for the detection of an unauthorized entry
on the premises, and which, when activated, generates an audible sound on the
premises.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: Any device which is interconnected to a telephone
line and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number, and transmit
by voice, message, or code signal, an emergency message indicating a need for
emergency response.
FALSE ALARM: Any alarm signal eliciting a response by a law enforcement agency
when a situation requiring such response does not, in fact, exist, but does not
include an alarm signal caused by violent conditions of nature, or other
extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the alarm
user.
INTERCONNECT: Any connection to an alarm system including an automatic dialing
device to a telephone line, either directly or through a mechanical device that
utilizes a telephone, for the purpose of using the telephone line to transmit a
message upon the activation of the alarm system.
PRIMARY TRUNK LINE: A telephone line connected to the Ada County Law
Enforcement Building housing the Sheriff's Office, Boise Police Department and
Ada County Jail, or to any law enforcement agency designated to receive
emergency calls.
SHERIFF: The Sheriff of Ada County, Idaho, or his designated representative.
(Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd. Ord. 249, 6-25-1992; amd. Ord. 896, 5-21-2019)
4-6-3: ALLOCATION OF REVENUES:
All service fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to the
General Fund of Ada County. (Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd. Ord. 249, 6-25-1992)
4-6-4: AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to program an automatic dialing device to
a primary trunk line; and it is unlawful for an alarm user to fail to
disconnect or reprogram an automatic dialing device which is programmed to
select a primary trunk line within twelve (12) hours of receipt of written
notice that it is so programmed.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter, all
existing automatic dialing devices programmed to select a primary trunk line
shall be reprogrammed or disconnected.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to program an automatic dialing device to
select any telephone line assigned to any law enforcement agencies of Ada
County or the municipalities adopting this chapter; and it is unlawful for an
alarm user to fail to disconnect or reprogram such device within twelve (12)
hours of receipt of written notice that an automatic dialing device is so
programmed. (Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd. Ord. 249, 6-25-1992)
4-6-5: ALARM PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or maintain any audible
alarm system which creates a sound similar to that of a civil defense warning
system.
   B.   Every person maintaining an alarm system shall provide to the Ada
County 911 Communications Center at the Ada County Sheriff's Office, 7200
Barrister Drive, Boise, Idaho 83704, information containing the names and
telephone numbers of the persons to be notified in order to render repairs or
service and secure the premises during any hour of the day or night that the
alarm system is actuated within fifteen (15) days of installation of the alarm
system.
   C.   Every person maintaining an alarm system shall make readily visible,
either on or immediately adjacent to the exterior of the device emitting the
alarm, the name and telephone number of the responsible party to be notified in
order to render repairs and service and secure the premises during any hour of
the day or night that the alarm system is activated.
   D.   Every audible alarm system shall have a timing device which
automatically shuts off the alarm within thirty (30) minutes after it has been
activated.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user or his representative to fail to
respond to the alarm location within sixty (60) minutes after being requested
to do so by a representative of the Sheriff's Office or the responding law
enforcement agency. Such person responding to the alarm location shall take
whatever action necessary to secure the property from further intrusion, or
take whatever action is necessary to render service to the alarm or to provide
response by another person who is able to render the necessary action after the
responding law enforcement agency has rendered the area safe from possible
entry by an intruder. Unless specifically requested, the law enforcement agency
responding shall be under no obligation to remain at the location of the alarm
for a period in excess of fifteen (15) minutes while waiting for the responding
party to arrive unless illegal entry has occurred. (Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd.
Ord. 249, 6-25-1992; amd. Ord. 896, 5-21-2019)
4-6-6: INTENTIONAL FALSIFICATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to activate an alarm system for the purpose
of summoning police except in the event of what is reasonably believed to be an
unauthorized entry on the premises for the purposes of carrying out a robbery
or burglary therein. (Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd. Ord. 249, 6-25-1992)
4-6-7: FALSE ALARM, SPECIAL SERVICE FEE:
   A.   An alarm user whose alarm has elicited two (2) responses within one
calendar year, which were subsequently shown to be false, will be assessed a
service fee for each additional false alarm that occurs within that period of
time.
   B.   If two (2) false alarms within one calendar year are received from any
alarm system:
      1.   The Sheriff shall notify the alarm user by certified mail of such
fact.
      2.   The sheriff will advise the alarm user that any additional false
alarms within the calendar year will result in the assessment of a service fee
for each additional false alarm that has been responded to, as determined by
the following schedule:
 
Third false alarm                   $ 25.00
Fourth false alarm                  50.00
Fifth false alarm                   75.00
Every successive false alarm over 5 100.00
   C.   A fifteen (15) day grace period will be extended to all alarm users
after the initial installation of an alarm system. The official recording of
false alarms will not commence until after the expiration of the fifteen (15)
day grace period. (Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd. Ord. 249, 6-25-1992)
4-6-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter may be by civil action or by criminal
prosecution.
   B.   The failure or omission to comply with any section of this chapter
shall be deemed a violation and may be so prosecuted, subject to the penalty
provided in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Violation of this chapter shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 123, 6-16-1982; amd. Ord.
249, 6-25-1992; amd. Ord. 629, 7-31-2006)
CHAPTER 7
CABLE TELEVISION ENTERPRISES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Short Title and Purpose
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: License Required
4-7-4: Application for License
4-7-5: Grant of Authority
4-7-6: Nonexclusive License
4-7-7: Term of License
4-7-8: License Fee and Inspection of Records
4-7-9: Operational Standards
4-7-10: Occupancy and Use of Easements and Public Rights of Way
4-7-11: Licensee Liability, Indemnification
4-7-12: Limitations on License
4-7-13: Local Office Complaints
4-7-14: Compliance With Applicable Laws and Ordinances
4-7-15: Prohibited Acts or Conditions
4-7-16: Procedure on Violations
4-7-17: Penalties
4-7-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This Chapter shall be known as ADA COUNTY CABLE TELEVISION LICENSING ORDINANCE.
The purpose of this Chapter shall be to regulate the installation and operation
of a community antenna television system within the unincorporated portions of
Ada County.
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. Where not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the plural include the singular and words in the singular include the plural.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not directory. All words and phrases
not otherwise defined herein shall have their ordinary and customary meaning.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The Ada County Board of County Commissioners.
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM (CATV, CATV SYSTEM OR SYS TEM): A system of
antennae, coaxial cables, wave guides or other conductors, equipment or
facilities designed, constructed or used for the purpose of providing
television, FM radio, or other services by cable through its facilities as
herein contemplated.
COUNTY: The County of Ada, Idaho.
EASEMENT: A grant of right to use a strip of land for specific purposes,
including public utility easements granted for fa cilities providing service to
and used by the public.
LICENSE AREA: The area within Ada County outside the corporate limits of any
municipal corporation within Ada County.
LICENSEE: A grantee of rights under this licensing ordinance.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corpora tion, company or
organization of any kind.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: Any alley, dedication or street as those terms are
defined pursuant to the Ada County Subdivision Ordi nance, as amended 1 .
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity receiving for any purpose the CATV service of
the licensee herein. (Ord. 113, 3-25-81)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
4-7-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of operating a CATV system
without having obtained a license for such purpose from the Board of County
Commissioners.
   B.   This license is nontransferable, unless so agreed to in writing by the
Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 113-1-85, 2-27-85)
4-7-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license to engage in the business of operating a CATV system
shall be made by the person or his duly designated agent by filing an
application with the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners. Such
application shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant, and should the applicant be a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors of said
corporation.
   B.   If the applicant be a corporation, the applicant shall file with the
Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners its annual report of its operations
during the preceding fiscal year.
   C.   Such information as may be required to determine the legal, character,
financial, technical and other qualifications of the applicant.
Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the application, the Clerk shall
submit said application to the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of
County Commissioners shall, at a regular or special meeting, adopt a resolution
to either approve the application as submitted, approve the application with
modification or deny said application.
4-7-5: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Upon the approval by the Board of County Commissioners, of the legal,
character, financial, technical and other qualifications of the applicant, the
Board of County Commissioners may grant to the applicant the right and
privilege to construct, operate and maintain a CATV system within the license
area for the distribution of television signals, FM radio, or other services by
cable subject to the terms, conditions, and provisions contained herein. Said
grant of authority shall include the right and privilege to erect, install,
construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain in, on, over,
under, upon, across and along any public way or easement now laid out or
dedicated and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the license area
such poles, wires, cable, conductors, ducts, conduit vaults, manholes,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and other properties as may be reasonably
necessary and appurtenant to the CATV system.
4-7-6: NONEXCLUSIVE LICENSE:
The right to use and occupy the easements and public ways for the purposes
herein set forth shall not be exclusive and the Board of County Commissioners
reserves the right to grant similar rights, privileges, and licenses to any
other person.
4-7-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
The license and rights herein granted shall be in force and effect for a term
of five (5) years from the effective date of the license. The license shall be
automatically renewed by the continued payment of the license fee stated below,
unless written notice is given by the Board of County Commissioners within
ninety (90) days of the expiration of the term of license. In such event, the
licensee shall have the opportunity to appear before the Board of County
Commissioners and present its reasons for renewal of the license.
4-7-8: LICENSE FEE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
   A.   The licensee shall pay to the County an amount equal to two percent
(2%) of the gross income from subscribers residing within the license area
during the previous calendar year. Such payment for the previous calendar year
shall be made to the Ada County Auditor, on or after January 1, but no later
than March 1 of each year.
   B.   A licensee shall permit any duly authorized representative of the Board
of
County Commissioners or the Ada County Auditor to inspect, examine and
transcribe any and all records kept and maintained by the licensee regarding
gross income from subscribers within the license area in order to verify the
license fee tendered.
4-7-9: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
The licensee shall maintain and operate the system and render efficient service
in accordance with such rules and regulations as are, or may hereinafter be
promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission.
4-7-10: OCCUPANCY AND USE OF EASEMENTS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Use: All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the licensee within the licensed area shall be so located as to
cause minimum interference with the proper use of public rights of way and
easements and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said public rights of way
or easements and not to interfere with existing public utility installations.
In all areas of the licensed area where the cables, wires or other like
facilities of both electrical and telephone utilities are placed underground,
the licensee shall place its cables, wires or other like facilities underground
to the maximum extent existing technology reasonably permits.
   B.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk,
driveway, other surfacing or landscaping of said rights of way or easements,
the licensee shall, at its own expense, replace and restore all paving,
sidewalk, driveway, other surfacing or landscaping of any public rights of way
or easements.
   C.   Tree Trimming: The licensee shall have authority to trim any trees upon
and overhanging the public rights of way and easements so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with wires and cables of the
licensee. (Ord. 113, 3-25-81)
   D.   Notice: Before entering upon any property for any of the reasons stated
in Section
4-7-10 A, B or C, the licensee shall first give written notice to the property
owners at least forty eight (48) hours in advance. (Ord. 113-1-85, 2-27-85)
4-7-11: LICENSEE LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION:
The licensee shall at all times protect and hold harmless the County from all
claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damages of every kind and
description resulting from the construction, installation, operation or
maintenance by the licensee of its CATV system within the licensed area. The
licensee shall, concurrently with the filing of an application for license,
file with the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners and at all times
thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of said license or
renewal thereof, at the licensee's sole expense, a general comprehensive
liability insurance policy, in protection of the County, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees, in a company authorized to do business in
the State of Idaho and in a form satisfactory to the Prosecuting Attorney,
protecting the County, its officers and employees against liability for loss or
damage for personal injury, death and property damage occasioned by the
operations of the licensee under said license in a minimum amount of:
 
$ 250,000.00 for property damage to any one person
500,000.00 for property damage in any one occurrence
500,000.00 for personal injury to any one person
1,000,000.00 for personal injury in any one occurrence
(Ord. 113, 3-25-1981)
4-7-12: LIMITATIONS ON LICENSE:
This license shall be a privilege to be held in personal trust by the original
licensee. It cannot in any event be sold, transferred, leased, assigned or
disposed of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, merger,
consolidation, or otherwise without the consent of the board of county
commissioners expressed by resolution. (Ord. 113, 3-25-1981)
4-7-13: LOCAL OFFICE COMPLAINTS:
The licensee shall maintain a local business office, or agent which the
inhabitants of the licensed area may telephone during regular business hours
without incurring added message or toll charges for any complaint regarding the
installation of the CATV system, the quality of service, equipment malfunction
or similar matters. (Ord. 113, 3-25-1981)
4-7-14: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The licensee shall at all times during the term of this license be subject to
all lawful exercise of applicable laws, ordinances, regulations, and statutes
by the federal, local or state government including, but not limited to, the
provisions and regulations of the Ada County highway district. (Ord. 113, 3-25-
1981)
4-7-15: PROHIBITED ACTS OR CONDITIONS:
From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, install or maintain within any easement or public right of
way within the licensed area any equipment or facilities for distribution of
any television signals or radio signals through a CATV system, unless a license
authorizing such use has first been obtained, and unless such license is in
full force and effect. In addition, it shall be unlawful for any licensee, its
agents, servants or subcontractors to violate any provision of this chapter.
Should a violation of this chapter be committed by an agent, servant or
subcontractor of the licensee, prosecution of such violations may be commenced,
pursuant to section
4-7-16 of this chapter, against the licensee or against the agent, servant or
subcontractor, or against both. (Ord. 113-1-81, 5-6-1981)
4-7-16: PROCEDURE ON VIOLATIONS:
Upon knowledge by the board of county commissioners of any violation or belief
that a violation is about to occur, the board of county commissioners may
request the Ada County prosecuting attorney to commence action, criminal or
civil, to correct the violation and to punish the same.
In the event any action is taken or any construction commenced in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, the proper authorities of the county, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent such unlawful action or construction to restrain, correct or abate
such violation or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or
about such premises. (Ord. 113, 3-25-1981)
4-7-17: PENALTIES:
Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be punishable as provided in
section 18-113, Idaho Code 1 . (Ord. 113, 3-25-1981; amd. Ord. 629, 7-31-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 18-113 provides for imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding 6
  months, or by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, or by both.
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Excessive Price Increase Prohibited
4-8-1: EXCESSIVE PRICE INCREASE PROHIBITED:
Upon proclamation of public emergency involving or threatening the lives,
property or welfare of the citizens, or for which a local disaster or emergency
is declared by the President of the United States, Governor of Idaho, or the
Board of Ada County Commissioners, and for a period of thirty (30) days from
the date such declaration is terminated, it shall be unlawful for any person,
contractor, business or other entity to sell or offer to sell any consumer food
items, repair or reconstruction services, emergency or medical supplies or
gasoline for an amount which exceeds ten percent (10%) of the price charged by
such person, contractor, business or other entity for said goods or services in
the ten (10) days immediately prior to the proclamation of emergency. Violation
of this Section is a misdemeanor. (Ord. 304, 6-6-1996)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Short Title
5-1-2: Purpose and Scope
5-1-3: Applicability of Regulations
5-1-4: Definitions
5-1-5: Permits Required, Fees
5-1-6: Records and Inspections
5-1-7: Construction and Use of Systems
5-1-8: Septic Tank Pumpers
5-1-9: Penalties
5-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY 208 SEWAGE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 111-
1-83, 10-12-83)
5-1-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The provisions of this Chapter are intended to insure that the disposal of
sewage shall be accomplished in a safe and sanitary manner in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare to the greatest extent possible. This
purpose is intended to be accomplished by attempts to reduce or prevent
pollution from individual on-site sewage disposal systems and subdivision or
plat sewage disposal systems, the primary management principles will be:
 
No. 1: Restriction of their use in areas where they are unsuitable.
No. 2: Assurance that systems are properly designed, sized and installed.
No. 3: Provision that proper maintenance arrangements be made to prevent their
       failure.
(Ord. 111-1-83, 10-12-83; amd. Ord. 269, 1-6-94)
5-1-3: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
This Chapter is applicable to all individual on-site sewage disposal systems
proposed to be constructed in Ada County after the effective date of this
Chapter. Any sewage disposal system for which a permit was previously issued is
not subject to the provisions of this Chapter unless otherwise herein provided.
(Ord. 111-1-83, 10-12-83)
5-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
COMMUNITY SUBSURFACE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: Any on-site sewage disposal system
utilizing subsurface disposal and having two (2) or more connections and/or
flows equal to or exceeding two thousand five hundred (2,500) g.p.d.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Public Health District IV, or his designee or
authorized agent.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: Public Health District IV, or such agency or unit of
government as may succeed to its powers, duties or responsibilities.
INDIVIDUAL AND SUBSURFACE ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A sewage disposal
system, other than a municipal or community system, which receives either human
excreta or liquid waste, or both, from a single premises. Included within the
scope of this definition are septic tank - soil absorption systems, privies and
chemical type toilets, and such other types as may be approved by the Director.
INSTALLER'S CERTIFICATE: A certificate issued by the Health Authority to a
licensed installer in accordance with subsection 5-1-5C of this Chapter.
LICENSED INSTALLER: A person holding an installer's registration permit under
Idaho Department of Health and Welfare Division of Environment Rules and
Regulations for Individual and Subsurface Sewage Disposal Systems, February
1978.
MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM: Any publicly-owned and maintained sewage system, system
of conveyance, piping, or any part thereof, that transports sewage away from
the property or origin to publicly-owned and operated sewage treatment and
disposal facilities.
PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual, partnership
or other entity.
SCUM: A mass of sewage solids in a septic tank floating at the surface of the
liquid, which is buoyed up by entrained gas, grease, or other substances.
SEWAGE: Any liquid or semiliquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in
suspension or solution and may include liquids containing chemicals in
solution.
SLUDGE: A mass of sewage solids in a septic tank which accumulates at the
bottom of the tank. (Ord. 111-1-83, 10-12-1983)
5-1-5: PERMITS REQUIRED, FEES:
   A.   Construction Permit And Fees: A permit shall be required prior to the
construction, reconstruction or replacement of an individual sewage disposal
system. A fee for each permit shall be paid to the health authority as set
forth below, in addition to any fee duly adopted by state authorities. Where
work for which a permit is required by this code is started or proceeded with
prior to obtaining said permit, the fees specified below shall be doubled, but
the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any persons from fully
complying with the requirements of this chapter in the execution of the work
nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
 
Construction permit fee for a new       $315.00
individual sewage disposal system
Construction permit fee for replacement 315.00
of an individual sewage disposal system
Construction permit fee for a new or    315.00 + $10.00/dwelling or 250 gallons
replacement on site community sewage    of flow
disposal system
Renewal of a valid permit               48.00
   B.   Sanitary Restrictions Administration Fees: For those services rendered
in the administration of sanitary restrictions, pursuant to section 50-1326,
Idaho Code, the following fees shall be paid to the health authority as set
forth below, and shall include any fee duly adopted by state authorities:
 
Subdivisions or plats proposing individual and subsurface $135.00 per lot
sewage disposal systems discharge to subsurface
Subdivisions or plats proposing to discharge sewage to a  40.00 per plat
municipal sewer system
   C.   Parcel Reviews: For those services rendered in evaluating existing
water supply or sewage disposal systems when such evaluation is a condition of
sale of real property, the following fees shall be paid to the health authority
as set forth below, and shall include any fee duly adopted by state
authorities:
 
Parcel review $166.00 + laboratory testing fee
   D.   Installer's Certificate: Any licensed septic tank installer working in
Ada County shall have made annual application for and have received a
certificate from the health authority. This certificate will be issued by the
health authority upon satisfactory completion of a test and prescribed course
work annually. The test and course work will include, but not be limited to,
the following: basic soils, percolation testing, system installation criteria,
code requirements and alternative systems installation requirements. (Ord. 111-
1-83, 10-12-1983; amd. Ord. 269, 1-6-1994; amd. Ord. 314, 7-5-1996; amd. Ord.
402, 9-26-2000; amd. Ord. 440, 10-23-2001)
5-1-6: RECORDS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Installation Details Approved And Recorded: Installation details of all
individual on site sewage disposal systems shall be recorded on the plot plan
for the development and be approved by the health authority prior to issuance
of a construction permit by the health authority.
   B.   Inspection Required: Two (2) inspections shall be made on all newly
installed systems, one immediately after site excavation and the second after
the system has been installed but prior to backfilling. The second inspection
may be waived at the discretion of the health authority and with adequate
information being submitted by the installer. (Ord. 111-1-83, 10-12-1983)
5-1-7: CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF SYSTEMS:
   A.   Failure Of Systems, Backup:
      1.   New On Site System Design: All newly installed individual on site
sewage systems shall be designed and installed so that in case of subsurface
sewage disposal system failure, a second subsurface sewage disposal system can
be installed in a manner which will allow installation of an alternating valve
and the continued use of the first subsurface sewage disposal system after
rejuvenation, if the first subsurface sewage disposal system can be reused.
      2.   Failure Of Existing On Site System: When, and if, any existing
individual on site sewage disposal system fails, the health authority must
approve the design and installation of the replacement subsurface sewage
disposal system and an alternating dual subsurface sewage disposal system must
be established once the subsurface sewage disposal system has recovered
sufficiently to provide adequate treatment, if it can recover.
   B.   Municipal Sewer System Variance: When a municipal sewer system is to be
installed within one year, the health authority may issue a variance on the
size of the individual on site sewage disposal system.
   C.   Interim On Site System/Dry Lines: The installation of an interim on
site sewage disposal system in areas where dry line sewers will also be
established shall require complete dry line installation to the property lines
by the contractor to eliminate road, sidewalk and/or other structural removal
when a municipal sewer system becomes available.
   D.   New Septic Tank Specifications: All new septic tank installations in
Ada County shall have a marker pipe that shall consist of a section of four
inch (4") ABS or PVC pipe that extends from a fitting in the lid of the manhole
to the ground surface. (Ord. 111-1-83, 10-12-1983)
5-1-8: SEPTIC TANK PUMPERS:
   A.   Method Of Tracking: The health authority shall develop a method of
tracking septic tanks being pumped in Ada County.
   B.   Pumping Requirements: Septic tanks are to be adequately pumped such
that no more than two inches (2") of the sludge and scum remain. (Ord. 111-1-
83, 10-12-1983)
5-1-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
or imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 111-1-83, 10-12-1983; amd. Ord. 629, 7-31-
2006)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Short Title
5-2-2: Authority And Applicability
5-2-3: Definitions
5-2-4: General Requirements
5-2-4-1: Mandatory Residential Collection Services And Fees
5-2-4-2: Maintenance Of Sanitary Conditions
5-2-4-3: Temporary Storage And Transportation Of Solid Waste
5-2-4-4: Self-Hauling
5-2-5: Disposal Sites
5-2-5-1: Use Of Disposal Sites
5-2-5-2: Operations, Regulations And Disposal Site Fees
5-2-5-3: Title To Waste
5-2-5-4: Asbestos Containing Material Disposal
5-2-5-5: Petroleum Contaminated Soil Disposal
5-2-6: County Officers' Authority And Responsibility
5-2-7: Incineration, Open Burning, And Commercial Barbecue Pits
5-2-7-1: Incineration
5-2-7-2: Open Burning
5-2-7-3: Commercial Barbecue Pits
5-2-8: Waste Collection And Disposal Contracts And Specifications
5-2-8-1: Exclusive Contracts
5-2-8-2: Contract Specifications
5-2-8-3: Exceptions To Exclusive Contract Requirements
5-2-8-4: Reports And Statements
5-2-9: Open Accounts
5-2-10: Prohibited Acts, Conditions And Penalties
5-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-2: AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Pursuant to chapter 44, title 31, and chapter 74, title 39, Idaho Code,
the board of Ada County commissioners has the authority and duty to establish
sanitary standards and a method of collection and disposal of waste for the
promotion of individual and community health and the prevention of the outbreak
and spread of dangerous, contagious and infectious disease.
   B.   Through this chapter, the board intends to establish a comprehensive
countywide system for the proper handling of all solid waste, including
recyclable materials, originating from residential, commercial, agricultural
and industrial operations, and other sources, to prevent land, air and water
pollution, insect and rodent infestation, the creation of fire hazards, and to
conserve the natural, economic and energy resources of the county.
   C.   These regulations shall apply to all lands within the unincorporated
territory of Ada County and to incorporated areas where the board has entered
into agreements with the governing bodies of such areas. It shall be unlawful
hereafter in such areas to keep, collect, haul, transport or dispose of waste
except as herein provided.
   D.   Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter be declared by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the
validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so
declared to be invalid, each section, clause and provision hereof being
declared severable. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given herein. When consistent with the context, words used in
the present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular, and words in the singular number include the plural. For the purpose
of this chapter, all terms, phrases and words shall have their ordinary and
customary meanings unless otherwise provided herein.
ADA COUNTY WASTE: Waste generated in Ada County authorized for disposal at a
landfill in Ada County.
ASBESTOS CONTAINING MATERIAL: Any material containing at least one percent (1%)
asbestos determined by polarized light microscopy using the interim method of
the determination of asbestos in bulk samples contained in appendix A of
subpart F in 40 CFR part 763.
ASH: The solid material left when combustible material is thoroughly burned or
is oxidized by chemical means.
BILLING SERVICES: An enterprise fund established by the board to account for
the receipts and expenses of providing waste collection services within
unincorporated Ada County, which is administered by the board or its designee.
BIOMEDICAL WASTE: Untreated, solid waste from medical, dental, and intermediate
care facilities, research centers, veterinary clinics, laboratories, funeral
homes/mortuaries and other similar facilities, that has the potential to cause
an infectious disease via exposure to a pathogenic organism of sufficient
virulence and dosage through a portal of entry in a susceptible host.
BOARD: The Ada County board of county commissioners.
BULKY WASTE: Large items of refuse, including, but not limited to, appliances,
furniture, large trees and stumps, and other oversized solid waste.
CARRYOUT SERVICE: A service by which contractor's employees enter a residential
customer's property to convey waste and recyclable materials to the
contractor's collection vehicle. This service may include an additional fee.
CLEAN WOOD WASTE: Solid waste consisting of wood pieces or particles generated
as a byproduct or waste from the manufacturing of wood products, handling and
storage of raw materials and trees. This includes, but is not limited to,
sawdust, chips, shavings, bark, pulp, log fuel and log yard waste, but does not
include wood pieces or particles containing chemical preservatives such as
creosote, pentachlorophenol or copper chrome arsenate.
COLLECTOR: Any person holding a contract with Ada County authorized and
designated by Ada County to collect, handle, transport and dispose of solid
waste.
COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER: Owner or occupant of a premises associated with, but not
limited to, businesses, industries, government agencies, schools, mobile home
parks, multi-family dwellings (triplex or larger) and temporary construction
activities who chooses to receive solid waste collection services.
COMMERCIAL PREMISES: Premises associated with, but not limited to, businesses,
industries, government agencies, schools, mobile home parks, multi-family
dwellings (triplex or larger) and temporary construction activities.
COMMERCIAL SERVICE: Optional solid waste collection services for commercial
premises associated with business, industrial and commercial premises.
Commercial service includes residential service provided in commercial sanitary
containers for private use, and residential service provided for the removal of
stable matter in excess of five (5) cubic feet (exceeding 35 pounds).
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE: All types of solid waste generated by commercial
customers on commercial premises. Commercial solid waste includes stable matter
in excess of five (5) cubic feet (exceeding 35 pounds) generated by residential
customers.
COMPOST: A biologically stable material derived from the composting process.
COMPOSTING: Biological decomposition of organic matter. It is accomplished by
mixing and piling in such a way to promote aerobic and/or anaerobic decay. The
process inhibits pathogens, viable weed seeds and odors.
COMPOSTING, AGRICULTURAL SERVICE: Large scale commercial production of compost
intended for agricultural use. Agricultural service composting operations shall
comply with title 8 of this code and shall be approved by the Idaho department
of agriculture.
COMPOSTING FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: Facility for the large scale production of
compost intended for sale and use on premises other than that where such
compost is produced. Commercial composting facilities shall be approved by the
Central District health department and shall comply with the provisions of
title 8 of this code. Agricultural service composting is not included.
COMPOSTING, PRIVATE: Producing compost, not for sale, on a parcel less than
five (5) acres, not to exceed ten (10) cubic yards at any particular time, for
use on the same premises where such compost is produced.
CONDITIONALLY EXEMPT SMALL QUANTITY GENERATOR (CESQG): A person who generates
no more than one hundred kilograms (100 kg) (approximately 220 pounds) per
month of nonacute hazardous material and no more than one kilogram (1 kg)
(approximately 2.2 pounds) of acute hazardous material; or no more than one
hundred kilograms (100 kg) per month of any residue or contaminated soil,
material or other debris resulting from the cleanup of any spill or release of
acute hazardous material.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Waste building materials, packaging and
rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition
operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures.
Such waste includes, but is not limited to, carpet, carpet padding, bricks,
concrete, masonry materials, soil, rock, lumber, road spoils, rebar, paving
materials and tree stumps. Noninert wastes and asbestos wastes are not
considered demolition waste.
CONTAINER, SANITARY: For residential purposes, sanitary containers are sixty
five (65) to ninety five (95) gallon capacity wheeled carts available from the
contractor.
CONTRACT: An exclusive contract/privilege granted by Ada County to collect,
handle, dispose, or recycle solid waste.
CONTRACTOR: The person, firm or corporation awarded an exclusive contract to
collect, handle, transport, dispose, recycle or recover solid waste.
COUNTY: Ada County, Idaho.
COUNTY OPERATED DISPOSAL SITE: A disposal site owned or operated by the county.
DISCOUNTED SERVICE: A reduction in the amount charged for residential service
for senior citizens, sixty five (65) years or older, at their primary
residence.
DISPOSAL SITE: A board approved location where any treatment, utilization,
processing or final deposition of solid waste occurs, including, but not
limited to, sanitary landfills, waste transfer stations, and public tipping
areas.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Wastes listed as hazardous by the administrator of the United
States environmental protection agency (EPA) in 40 CFR part 261, or waste that
meets one or more of the hazardous waste criteria as defined by the EPA. The
criteria are: corrosivity, ignitability, reactivity, and toxicity
characteristic leaching procedure (TCLP) toxicity.
HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS MATERIAL COLLECTION FACILITY: A board approved transfer
station where residents and CESQGs may deposit household hazardous waste and
CESQG waste for recycling, reuse, or final disposal.
HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste product derived from a household that meets
the definition of "hazardous waste", or that the board defines as hazardous
waste. Household hazardous waste includes, but is not limited to, cathode ray
tubes (CRT), household cleaners, automotive fluids, pesticides and herbicides.
INCINERATION: The controlled combustion of solid waste that yields
nonputrescible residues and air effluents in compliance with applicable air
pollution regulations.
INORGANIC SOLID WASTE: All substances that are included within the definition
of "solid waste", as herein defined, excepting those substances consisting
solely of material not comprised of or derived from once living organisms and
that are in no way inimical to the public welfare.
LANDFILL: See definitions of Sanitary Landfill and Public Tipping Area.
LIQUID WASTE: As defined in 40 CFR 258.28(c)(1), any material that produces
measurable liquid as a result of the paint filter liquids test method 9095 of
EPA SW-846.
OCCUPANT: Any person in possession, charge or control of any premises.
OWNER: The current deeded owner, according to the records in the Ada County
assessor's office, of any premises.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, lessor, partnership, association, institution,
government agency, municipality, or public or private corporation, in the
plural as well as singular.
PETROLEUM CONTAMINATED SOIL: Soil in which petroleum, petroleum byproducts, or
petroleum based fuels have been spilled, leaked or dumped and which fail the
test for toxicity characteristics of 40 CFR part 261.4.
PREMISES: Any dwelling, flat, rooming house, apartment house, hospital, school,
hotel, restaurant, boarding house, shop, place of business, manufacturing
business, establishment or any other building, structure or parcel of land.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A condition created by an unreasonable or unlawful act or
omission by a person on his own property that injures or endangers the health,
safety, or comfort of a considerable number of others, is offensive to
community moral standards, or unlawfully obstructs the public in free use of
public property.
PUBLIC TIPPING AREA: Specifically designated location within a sanitary
landfill where waste is deposited for final disposal.
PUTRESCIBLE MATERIAL: Solid waste that contains material capable of being
decomposed by microorganisms.
RECREATIONAL OR WARMING FIRE: The burning of material other than waste where
the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace,
barbecue grill or barbecue pit and with a total fuel area of three feet (3') or
less in diameter and two feet (2') or less in height for pleasure, religious,
ceremonial, cooking or similar purposes.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Materials that still have useful physical, chemical or
biological properties after serving their original purposes and can, therefore,
be reasonably reused or recycled for the same or other purposes.
RECYCLING BIN: A collector's container that is set out in such a manner to
allow for safe collection of recyclable materials.
RECYCLING CENTER: An enclosed facility where recyclable materials are
collected, sorted, flattened, crushed or bundled for shipment to reprocessors
and reusers of the materials. Recycling centers shall comply with the
provisions of title 8 of this code.
RECYCLING PLANT: A facility where recyclable materials are reprocessed and/or
reused from their waste form into new products or raw materials. Recycling
plants shall comply with the provisions of title 8 of this code.
REPORTS: The reports required of or from collectors as to area served, routes
handled, trucks and personnel employed.
RESIDENT: A person with a home, house, place of abode, place of habitation,
dwelling or place where one actually resides in Ada County for a consecutive
period of thirty (30) days.
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SERVICE: Mandatory solid waste collection service for
residential customers.
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER: The occupant or owner of a residential premises in Ada
County.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES: A separate dwelling or residential unit occupied, or that
may be occupied, by a person or group of persons which may be a single-family
residence, manufactured home, condominium, duplex or multiplex. Each residence
is considered separate for solid waste service and billing purposes.
RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING PROGRAM: The collection by the contractor of contract
specified recyclable materials from residential customers.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: Waste generated by a residential customer that fits into and
weighs no more than the limits established for an approved residential sanitary
container. Residential waste excludes bulky and hazardous waste, construction
and demolition debris, stable matter in excess of five (5) cubic feet
(exceeding 35 pounds), and all other wastes prohibited from disposal at the
county's sanitary landfills or other disposal sites.
SANITARY CONDITION: Maintenance of a premises, public or private, improved or
vacant, so that the premises does not or is not likely to attract flies or
allow for fly breeding; affords food or harborage for rodents or pests; or acts
as a source of noxious or offensive odors or conditions inimical to the public
interest or health.
SANITARY LANDFILL: An area of land or an excavation in which wastes are placed
for permanent disposal, excluding land application units, surface impoundments,
injection wells or waste piles.
SCAVENGING: The unauthorized removal of materials from a disposal site,
commercial or residential sanitary container or recycling bin.
SELF-HAULER: A person who collects and transports solid waste generated at
their own premises to a disposal site by their own means. Persons who self-haul
must comply with the provisions of this chapter.
SLUDGE: Any solid, semisolid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility exclusive of the treated effluent from
a wastewater treatment plant.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage or refuse, sludge from a wastewater treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material including solid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, commercial mining, and agricultural operations and
from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved materials in
domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 USC
1342.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DIVISION: The division of the county's operations
department responsible for managing the county operated waste disposal
facilities, recommending change and improvements to the board concerning this
chapter, collecting fees at the county operated sanitary landfills for disposal
of solid waste, enforcing regulations established by the board for the
collection, storage, handling, transportation and disposal of solid waste, and
developing contract specifications and monitoring established contracts for
solid waste fee collection in unincorporated Ada County.
SPECIFICATIONS: The requirements pertaining to waste management established
from time to time by the board on recommendation of the solid waste management
division.
STABLE MATTER: All manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable or any animal, livestock, or poultry enclosure, and resulting
from the keeping of animals, poultry, or livestock.
STATEMENTS: Fiscal reporting required of the contracted collector such as
annual financial operations, rates charged, accounts collected and delinquent
and other pertinent information desired by the board.
STREET: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties. This definition includes the terms alley, highway,
thoroughfare, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, cul-de-sac, drive and
private right of way.
WASTE: Unwanted, useless material, including trash, garbage, refuse, and
debris; or any material intended for permanent disposal, excepting hazardous
waste.
WASTE TRANSFER STATION: A fixed intermediate facility, approved by the board
for the centralized collection of solid waste and other collected material
prior to transport for final disposal.
YARD WASTE: Organic material generated as a result of normal maintenance of
residential yards and gardens. These wastes include grass clippings, pruning
wastes, small limbs, leaves and other organic wastes. Not included in yard and
garden wastes are sod or vegetation with trapped rocks/dirt, stumps, food
wastes and animal wastes. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 644, 11-21-2006; amd.
Ord. 744, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 831, 10-28-2014; Ord. 938, 8-16-2022)
5-2-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
5-2-4-1: MANDATORY RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SERVICES AND FEES:
   A.   Service: To maintain the public health, safety and aesthetics of the
county, all owners of residential premises in unincorporated Ada County that
can be served by the county's solid waste collection contractor shall be
provided solid waste collection services, and shall be required to pay for such
services pursuant to Idaho Code sections 31-4404, 63-902(10), 31-870(1) and (2)
as they are amended from time to time, unless services are suspended or
exempted as provided herein.
   B.   Inaccessible Premises: If a residential customer believes its
residential premises are inaccessible by the contractor, then it may contact
the contractor and request an exemption from service. The contractor shall
inspect the premises, determine accessibility, and inform the board or its
designee whether such premises are inaccessible. If the contractor determines
that the residential premises are inaccessible, then the residential customer's
account shall be suspended for a period not to exceed one (1) year. After one
(1) year, the residential customer may contact the contractor to request a new
exemption.
   C.   Commercial Services In Lieu Of Residential Collection Services: A
residential customer may request commercial services, in lieu of the mandatory
residential collection services, by application to the Board's designee.
Failure to pay the fees required for commercial services will result in the
actions set forth in
5-2-4-1-D.5, including certifying any amounts due to the owner's ad valorem
taxes pursuant to Idaho Code sections 31-4404, 63-902(10), 31-870(1), and 31-
870(2), as they are amended from time to time.
   D.   Service Fee: Residential collection service fees, including late
charges, shall be approved by the board or its designee.
      1.   Discount Service: Discount service is available for senior citizens
over the age of sixty five (65), by providing the board or its designee a copy
of a driver's license, identification card or other suitable documentation
evidencing age. The discount rate shall be set annually by the board and is
subject to the availability of funds.
      2.   Refunds: The board or its designee has sole discretion to determine
whether a residential customer is entitled to a refund of collection fees.
      3.   Temporary Suspensions: A residential customer may request that
residential service be suspended for a minimum of thirty (30) days and a
maximum of six (6) consecutive months. Such request shall be made, in writing
on an application form provided by board's designee. No more than two (2)
suspensions of service under this provision can be sought in a three hundred
sixty five (365) day period, and, in no event, can combined suspensions of
service exceed a total of twelve (12) months in a three hundred sixty five
(365) day period. After two (2) consecutive six (6) month suspensions, a
residential customer may seek a continued suspension of service, pursuant to
5-2-4-1 . D.4., which the board or its designee may grant, for good cause
shown.
      4.   Continued Suspensions: A residential customer may apply for a
continued temporary suspension from service, due to extraordinary and/or
unusual circumstances (i.e., military service, institutionalization, extended
hospital admission, uninhabitable premises, etc.) by completing an application
available through Ada County Billing Services. The board or its designee will
review the application and grant or deny the continued suspension, for good
cause shown. If granted, the continued suspension is valid for up to one (1)
year from the date of approval. Upon the expiration of one (1) year, the
residential customer may submit a new application.
      5.   Hardship Exemptions: A residential customer may apply for a hardship
exemption due to financial hardship by completing an application available
through Ada County Department of Indigent Services. Such application shall be
submitted to Ada County department of indigent services prior to consideration
by the board. If approved by the board or its designee, the hardship exemption
is valid for one (1) year from the date of approval. Upon the expiration of one
(1) year, the residential customer may submit a new application.
      6.   Failure To Pay Fees: Failure to pay the mandatory residential
collection service fees will result in the following action:
         a.   If an account is more than thirty (30) days delinquent on August
1, the board or its designee will notify the owner of the residential premises
by a certified letter that the balance on the account, must be paid or that
amount will be certified to the owner's ad valorem taxes pursuant to Idaho Code
sections 31-4404, 63-902(10), 31-870(1), and 31-870(2), as they are amended
from time to time.
   E.   Stable Matter Generation:
      1.   Residential customers may generate a maximum of five (5) cubic feet
(not to exceed 35 pounds) of stable matter per week, as part of the mandatory
residential collection service. Stable matter generated in excess of five (5)
cubic feet (exceeding 35 pounds) shall be considered commercial solid waste.
      2.   Residential customers generating stable matter in excess of five (5)
cubic feet (exceeding 35 pounds) shall dispose of such stable matter in the
following manner:
         a.   Self-haul the stable matter, as provided in section
5-2-4-4  of this chapter, to such disposal sites as allowed in section
5-2-5  of this chapter; or
         b.   Arrange for the county authorized collector to provide commercial
service for the removal of the stable matter. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord.
644, 11-21-2006; amd. Ord. 786, 6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 831, 10-28-2014; amd. Ord.
917, 12-15-2020; Ord, 968, 2-6-2024)
5-2-4-2: MAINTENANCE OF SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Deposit Of Waste At Disposal Sites Only: All persons shall maintain
their premises in sanitary condition. No person shall throw or deposit or
permit to accumulate any waste in or on premises, improved or vacant, either
public or private, within unincorporated Ada County, unless said premises is a
disposal site, so that it constitutes a public nuisance under Idaho Code title
18, chapter 59, or is likely to:
      1.   Attract flies or fly breeding;
      2.   Afford food or harborage for rodents and pests;
      3.   Be a source of noxious or offensive odors or conditions inimical to
public interest or health.
   B.   Deposit Of Waste Or Lighted Material On Public Ways: No person shall
wilfully or negligently throw from any vehicle, place, deposit or permit to be
deposited upon or alongside of any highway, street, alley or easement used by
the public for public travel, any waste or lighted material.
   C.   Other Applicable Regulations: No section or provision of these
regulations shall be construed to prohibit anything permitted or authorized
under other applicable regulations.
   D.   Vacating Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person upon vacating
premises to fail to remove all waste from such premises and appurtenances
thereto; or to fail to place the premises in a thoroughly sanitary condition
within twenty four (24) hours after said premises is vacated.
   E.   Composting: Composting is permissible. Matter used for composting may
be transported, kept, and used, provided the compost or matter used for
composting shall not constitute a public nuisance. For the purposes of this
chapter, there are three (3) types of composting activities: agricultural
service composting, commercial composting facility, and private composting as
defined in section
5-2-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-4-3: TEMPORARY STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any premises where
waste is generated to at all times keep, or cause to be kept, a sanitary
container and, except as otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be
deposited therein all solid waste generated. (see Section
5-2-3 Definitions - Container, Sanitary)
   B.   It shall be a violation hereof to place or deposit any solid waste
whatsoever in or around a sanitary container owned or provided for the use of
another person without that person's prior approval.
   C.   Residential waste must be kept in a sanitary container, with the
exception of bulky waste and other waste specified in item D of this section.
The combined weight of a sanitary container and its contents is not to exceed
sixty (60) pounds unless it can be lifted by contactor's semi-automated
equipment. Contents of the sanitary containers must not be compacted to the
extent of obstructing free and easy removal from the wheeled cart. Approved
sanitary containers for use by residential customers may be any of the
following:
      1.   Wheeled plastic carts available from the contractor with all of the
following specifications:
         a.   Capacity of 65 or 95 gallons; and,
         b.   Equipped with close-fitting lids or covers.
      2.   Disposable (nonreturnable) paper sacks for leaf collection only.
      3.   Sanitary containers available from the contractor from 1 yard to 8
yards in size.
      4.   Roll off boxes available from the contractor on a temporary basis
for the purpose of collecting and disposing construction and demolition debris
or other contractor waste.
   D.   Branches, tree trimmings, limbs, hedge cuttings and other clean wood
waste exceeding the capacity of approved sanitary containers shall be tied into
bundles not heavier than sixty (60) pounds, nor more than four feet (4') in
length and eighteen inches (18") in diameter.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant to maintain the
sanitary containers in a secure condition so as to avoid offensive odors,
health hazards and the scattering and spilling of waste. Any owner or occupant
of a premises may be charged an additional fee if cleanup of scattered or
spilled waste is necessary.
   F.   All sanitary containers shall be made available for conveyance to
contractor's vehicles by placement no more than four feet (4') from the street,
or as close as reasonably possible to the street, without obstructing parking
areas, exit/entrances or pedestrian traffic. In cases where the contractor does
not have reasonable access to the sanitary container, the containers may be
kept in a place where agreed upon by the owner or occupant and the contractor,
or at such place designated by the inspector. Sanitary containers set out
farther than four feet (4') from the street may be subject to carry out service
and an additional fee.
   G.   Sanitary containers shall be placed for collection no later than seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the regularly scheduled collection day, but no sooner
than the evening prior to collection. Sanitary containers may not be stored
curbside or in the right of way. Upon collection, sanitary containers must be
promptly returned to their regular storage area on the owner's premises no
later than seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the day of collection.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport waste without securing
the load to the vehicle or without securely covering the waste in the vehicle,
to prevent scattering, blowing and/or loss of waste during transport. (Ord.
577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 661, 3-27-2007; amd. Ord. 676, 9-25-2007; Ord. 938,
8-16-2022)
5-2-4-4: SELF-HAULING:
   A.   Nothing herein shall be deemed as prohibiting any person from self-
hauling solid waste or recyclable materials to sites designated by the board
for receiving such materials, provided that all solid waste and recyclable
material shall be secured in such manner that it will not litter any public or
private property, and that such person shall be liable for payment of any fees
or charges required thereof.
   B.   Persons not using mandatory trash collection services shall personally
dispose of solid waste with the same frequency as the contractor. This
responsibility shall not be delegated or transferred to any entity other than
the contractor. Residential customers who choose to self-haul waste remain
subject to the mandatory trash collection fee in section
5-2-4-1 of this chapter.
   C.   Owners and/or occupants of commercial premises may self-haul waste
generated on their premises to disposal sites.
      1.   The owner and/or occupants of commercial premises must own or lease
the vehicle hauling the solid waste and shall not be engaged in the business of
hauling solid waste, and
      2.   The operator of the vehicle must be an owner or occupant of the
commercial premises, or an employee of the commercial enterprise generating the
waste, and
      3.   The contracting out, hiring of others, or bartering for waste
hauling services shall not be permitted. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-5: DISPOSAL SITES:
Only county operated disposal sites and disposal sites approved by the board by
franchise agreement, contract or otherwise, may accept solid waste for either
transfer or permanent disposal. The board may further restrict the kinds of
waste that county operated disposal sites and disposal sites approved by
franchise agreement, contract, or otherwise, may accept, provided that such
restrictions comply with the provisions of this chapter and/or the franchise
agreement or contract applicable to the disposal site. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005;
amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-5-1: USE OF DISPOSAL SITES:
   A.   Waste Received From: Only waste generated in Ada County or at the Bogus
Basin Recreation Area may be deposited at county operated disposal sites;
provided, however, that the board, in its sole discretion, may consider and may
agree to accept waste generated outside of Ada County or the Bogus Basin
Recreational Area (out of county waste) upon a written request which sets forth
the circumstances for the request. The board, in its sole discretion, may place
any limitations and/or conditions, such as, but not limited to, the duration of
acceptance, amount and/or type of out of county waste to be accepted at county
operated disposal sites.
   B.   Driver's License: No person shall be permitted to operate a motor
vehicle on a county operated disposal site without a valid driver's license.
   C.   County Residency: With the exception of out of county waste as approved
by the board, only residents of Ada County may deposit waste at a county
operated disposal site. Proof of county residency can be demonstrated by: a
valid driver's license or identification card bearing an Ada County address
and/or a current utility or property tax bill or receipt bearing an Ada County
address. (See definition of "resident" in section
5-2-3 of this chapter.)
   D.   Origin Of Commercial Waste: With the exception of out of county waste
as approved by the board, any owner or occupant of commercial premises that
chooses to self-haul solid waste to a county operated disposal site pursuant to
subsection
5-2-4-4C of this chapter may be required to demonstrate that the material
originated in Ada County. The origin of commercial waste material can be
demonstrated by:
      1.   Providing the cashier at the gatehouse a copy of the current
building permit or property tax notice containing the address of the commercial
premises from which the waste was generated; or
      2.   Completing and submitting a landfill disposal authorization form to
the solid waste management department. The solid waste management department
will verify the information provided.
   E.   Fraudulent Use Of Ada County Disposal Sites: No person may dispose of
waste at county operated disposal sites under fraudulent circumstances.
   F.   Scavenging: No person shall scavenge, separate, collect or remove
material from a county operated disposal site unless permitted in writing by
the designated county official.
   G.   Unlawful Entry: It is unlawful for any person to enter or use county
operated disposal sites except during the hours designated unless authorized by
the designated county official.
(Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010; Ord. 982, 9-26-2024)
5-2-5-2: OPERATIONS, REGULATIONS AND DISPOSAL SITE FEES:
   A.   The board, through resolution, may determine the hours of operation,
days of operation and operation regulations of county operated disposal sites.
The board shall set the fees, through resolution, for solid waste disposal at
county operated disposal sites, and the board has the authority to waive these
fees at any time, for any reason. The board shall establish the fees for
disposal of Ada County waste at disposal sites in the county. Such fees shall
be uniform in the amount and method of assessment and collection for all
landfills in the county that dispose of Ada County waste.
   B.   The fees for solid waste disposal at county operated disposal sites
shall be deposited in a specified fund administered by the board or its
designee, and used for operation and expansion of county operated disposal
sites, remediation projects, closure and monitoring, as well as to fulfill the
payroll obligations of the solid waste management division. Fees for solid
waste disposal at disposal sites not operated by the county shall be
administered in accordance with the franchise agreement(s) or other contract(s)
applicable to such.
   C.   In the case of an emergency affecting the public health, safety, or
welfare the fees for solid waste disposal at county operated disposal sites
shall be waived up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month for waste
resulting from such emergency. The board shall have the authority to waive
additional fees at any time, for any reason. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord.
619, 5-12-2006; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 831, 10-28-2014)
5-2-5-3: TITLE TO WASTE:
   A.   Title to solid waste and nonregulated hazardous waste shall pass to the
county at the time of acceptance at a county operated disposal site. Title to
solid waste and nonregulated hazardous waste shall pass to the owner or
operator of a disposal site not operated by the county at the time of
acceptance by the owner or operator at that disposal site. Title to all
regulated hazardous waste and otherwise prohibited materials remains with the
generator. The county reserves the right to remediate hazardous waste deposited
at county operated disposal sites, and seek costs for such remediation from the
generator. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-5-4: ASBESTOS CONTAINING MATERIAL DISPOSAL:
   A.   The solid waste management division shall accept asbestos containing
material only at county operated disposal sites under the following conditions:
      1.   The source of asbestos containing material must be located within
Ada County. The source of asbestos containing material shall be verified.
      2.   The asbestos containing material shall be bagged in approved
asbestos disposal bags, or sealed in plastic approved by the solid waste
management division. Asbestos disposal requirements at county operated disposal
sites may exceed state and federal regulations.
      3.   Any person disposing of asbestos containing material at a county
operated disposal site must notify the solid waste management division during
designated administration office hours at least twenty four (24) hours prior to
delivery. Notification may be made by telephone, and shall include estimated
quantity, time of disposal and the source of material.
      4.   Any person disposing of asbestos containing material shall meet all
local, state and federal regulatory agency handling and disposal requirements.
   B.   Disposal of asbestos containing material at county operated disposal
sites shall be during specific hours designated by the board. Weather and
disposal site conditions may further restrict disposal of asbestos containing
material.
   C.   The solid waste management division reserves the right to prohibit
disposal of asbestos containing material at county operated disposal sites at
any time. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-5-5: PETROLEUM CONTAMINATED SOIL DISPOSAL:
   A.   County disposal sites can accept, as determined on a case by case
basis, petroleum contaminated soil from underground storage tank (UST) cleanup
sites. The petroleum contaminated soil must qualify as a nonhazardous waste
under 40 CFR part 261.4(b)(10).
   B.   The solid waste management division will individually review all
requests for disposal of petroleum contaminated soil at county operated
disposal sites. The person requesting disposal must demonstrate that the
petroleum contaminated soil is acceptable for final disposal.
   C.   Any person who desires to dispose of petroleum contaminated soil at a
county operated disposal site must submit a written request to the solid waste
management division. When the request is received, the solid waste management
division will review the material. If any of the following conditions exist,
pursuant to federal law the solid waste management division shall refuse to
accept the petroleum contaminated soil:
      1.   The petroleum contaminated soil contains a resource conservation and
recovery act (RCRA) listed hazardous material that is not exempted by 40 CFR
part 261.4; or
      2.   The petroleum contaminated soil poses a health and/or safety risk to
solid waste management division personnel; or
      3.   The petroleum contaminated soil contains free product or is in a
slurry form.
   D.   The solid waste management division will accept, for disposal at a
county operated disposal site on a case by case basis, petroleum contaminated
waste under the exemptions provided in 40 CFR 261.4(b)(10).
   E.   Any person who requests disposal of petroleum contaminated soil at a
county operated disposal site shall provide representative samples to a
laboratory approved by the Idaho department of environmental quality (DEQ). The
solid waste management division will determine the amount of sampling required.
      1.   Field samples taken with hydrocarbon vapor measuring equipment (HNU,
OVA, etc.) are not acceptable.
      2.   Approved EPA or state analytical laboratory methods must be used.
   F.   Any person who requests disposal of petroleum contaminated soil at a
county operated disposal site must provide documentation from a recognized
professional in the field of treating petroleum contaminated soil that the soil
meets the solid waste management division requirements for final disposal.
   G.   Petroleum contaminated soil not containing other hazardous constituents
with TC levels and TPH levels below the concentration levels listed in the
following table may be accepted for direct disposal at a county operated
disposal site:
 
Contaminant           Maximum Contaminant Concentration (ppm)
Gasoline              100
Diesel                1,000
JP-4 (jet A)          100
Stove oil             1,000
Bunker C              1,000
Waste oil (motor oil) 50
 
   H.   Petroleum contaminated soil with contaminant concentrations greater
than the amounts in the above table may be accepted for treatment at a county
operated disposal site on a case by case basis. Any person who requests
disposal is responsible for all expenses associated with treatment, testing,
and storage, and such charges shall be determined on a case by case basis.
   I.   The solid waste management division reserves the right to require
additional testing prior to disposal of petroleum contaminated soil at a county
operated disposal site. The solid waste management division also reserves the
right to reject any petroleum contaminated soil that may potentially pose an
unreasonable risk or environmental concern. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord.
744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-6: COUNTY OFFICERS' AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY:
The board shall approve all disposal sites. The board shall also establish all
necessary rules and regulations as to the manner of time and limits of
collecting, disposing, reducing, and/or recovering waste at the county operated
disposal sites. Such rules and regulations shall be appropriately posted on
signs designating the disposal site and its uses. The board or its designee
shall oversee the contractor's performance of duties under a collection
services contract. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord.
831, 10-28-2014)
5-2-7: INCINERATION, OPEN BURNING, AND COMMERCIAL BARBECUE PITS:
5-2-7-1: INCINERATION:
   A.   Freestanding noncommercial incinerators not connected to buildings
shall be maintained in good condition at all times and operated in accordance
with this chapter, title 7 of this code, and other governing agencies
regulating emissions. Incineration shall only be performed in accordance with
the limits set forth in this chapter and this title.
      1.   Freestanding noncommercial incinerators shall be constructed of
concrete or masonry and shall have a completely enclosed combustion chamber.
Freestanding noncommercial incinerators shall be equipped with a permanently
attached spark arrester. The spark arrester shall be constructed of iron, wire
mesh or other noncombustible material with openings not larger than one-half
inch (1/2").
      2.   Freestanding incinerators shall not be located within ten feet (10')
of combustible building material or openings, or property lines. Incinerators
shall not be located within five feet (5') of noncombustible building
materials. Chimney stacks shall be constructed in accordance with Ada County
building code.
      3.   Incineration shall be immediately discontinued if smoke or
particulate emissions constitute a public nuisance or hazardous condition.
(Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-7-2: OPEN BURNING:
No person shall build, ignite, or maintain any outdoor fire of any kind or
character, or for any purposes whatsoever, unless weather conditions do not
constitute a safety hazard and the air quality index (AQI) as determined by the
department of environmental quality (DEQ) is sixty (60) or below for any
pollutant. The AQI may be found by calling the DEQ at (208) 373-0313, and as
that number may change from time to time, the AQI may also be obtained through
the DEQ website at www.deq.idaho.gov. It is the responsibility of any person
who shall ignite any outdoor fire to determine the AQI prior to ignition.
   A.   Allowed Burning: Open burning shall be allowed under the regulations
set forth above in the following cases:
      1.   Fires used to keep irrigation ditches and fencerows clear of plant
and weed growth; and/or
      2.   Fires used for control or alleviation of fire hazard or for weed
control when no alternative control method exists; and/or
      3.   Fires used in the training of organized firefighting personnel; and/
or
      4.   Fires used to dispose of tree remnants and dry vegetation where no
other practical or alternative method of disposal is available.
   B.   Prohibited Burning:
      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of any section of this chapter, no
person shall allow, suffer, cause or permit the burning of materials that emit
toxic contaminants or large volumes of smoke, particulates or odors, such as,
including, but not limited to, the following: wet or green vegetation,
commercial waste, drywall, sheetrock, floor underlayment, insulation,
chemicals, motor vehicles and parts thereof, dead animals or parts thereof,
junked motor vehicles or any materials resulting from a salvage operation,
tires or other rubber materials or products, plastics, asphalt or composition
roofing or any other asphaltic material or product, tar, tarpaper, waste or
heavy petroleum products, paints, lumber, or timbers treated with
preservatives, insulated wire, and pathogenic wastes or hazardous wastes.
      2.   Any burning that would otherwise be allowed under this chapter, but
is determined to be a public nuisance, hazard or source of air pollution, shall
be prohibited.
      3.   No person shall allow, suffer, cause or permit the open burning of
any material that violates an air pollution alert as specified in chapter 10 of
this title, known as the Ada County clean air ordinance.
   C.   Restrictions On Open Burning:
      1.   Open burning shall not be conducted within fifty feet (50') of any
structure or combustible material. Conditions which could cause the fire to
spread to within fifty feet (50') of a structure shall be eliminated prior to
ignition. This fire distance restriction from structures is not applicable to
authorized burning of irrigation ditches for the purpose of maintaining
adequate irrigation.
      2.   Any open burning shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until the fire is completely extinguished. This person must have a garden hose
connected to a water supply or other approved fire extinguishing equipment
readily available.
      3.   No person shall kindle a fire upon the premises of another without
the permission of the owner or his agent.
      4.   Open burning hours are from dawn until dusk; no person may conduct
open burning at night or allow a fire to smolder overnight.
      5.   Open burning shall be immediately discontinued if the smoke
emissions constitute a public nuisance or hazardous condition.
   D.   Recreational Or Warming Fires: Recreational or warming fires, when
conducted under the provisions of this section, do not constitute open burning.
      1.   Recreational and warming fires shall not be conducted within twenty
five feet (25') of a structure or combustible material unless contained in a
barbecue pit. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread to within twenty
five feet (25') of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
      2.   A hose connected to a water supply or other approved fire
extinguishing equipment must be readily available.
      3.   Recreational and warming fires must be constantly attended to by a
responsible and knowledgeable person until extinguished.
      4.   No person shall allow, suffer or cause or permit a recreational or
warming fire that violates air pollution alerts as specified in chapter 10 of
this title known as the Ada County clean air ordinance.
      5.   Recreational or warming fires must be extinguished if the smoke
emissions constitute a public nuisance or hazardous condition. (Ord. 577, 3-22-
2005; amd. Ord. 636, 9-26-2006; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-7-3: COMMERCIAL BARBECUE PITS:
   A.   Commercial barbecue pits shall only be operated in accordance with the
limits set forth in the permits issued by the appropriate authority.
      1.   Commercial barbecue pits used for commercial cooking operations in
buildings shall be constructed as commercial food heat processing equipment in
accordance with the Ada County building code. Barbecue pits in outdoor
locations shall be constructed of concrete or approved noncombustible
materials.
      2.   Barbecue pits in outdoor locations shall be located ten feet (10')
from combustible materials, walls and roofs.
      3.   Portable fire extinguishers shall be located at the site of a
commercial barbecue pit in accordance with the uniform fire code. (Ord. 577, 3-
22-2005; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-8: WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL CONTRACTS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to collect and to dispose of solid waste
within the unincorporated areas of Ada County without first having entered into
a contract with Ada County, or falling under an exception specified in section
5-2-8-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-8-1: EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS:
Within the unincorporated area of Ada County the board may, by exclusive
contract, provide for the collection, hauling and disposal of solid waste. The
issuance of a contract or contracts is hereby deemed to be in the public
interest for adequate and uniform collection and disposal of solid waste.
Exclusive contract or contracts for the collection, hauling and disposal of
solid waste may be granted by the board to one or more contractors and may be
granted for a period of years determined by the parties, but for no more than
twenty five (25) years, for the construction, establishment, acquisition,
maintenance and/or operation of a solid waste collection system and sanitary
disposal system for both public and private purposes, using the streets and
rights of way in Ada County. In accordance with Idaho Code section 31-4403(6),
such contract may be negotiated or advertised for bids, as the board deems
desirable. No other person other than the board is authorized or allowed to
contract on the behalf of Ada County regarding the collection or disposal of
waste within the unincorporated area of Ada County. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, the county by franchise or contract may authorize
the establishment and operation of disposal sites within the county to enable
the county to satisfy its obligations to provide landfill capacity and to
manage and control the ownership, disposition and ultimate disposal of solid
waste within the county. Terms and conditions of such franchises or contracts
shall comply with this chapter and applicable law. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-8-2: CONTRACT SPECIFICATIONS:
The following specifications, among others that may be necessary, shall be
contained in any contract issued for the collection, hauling and disposal of
solid waste:
   A.   No contract issued shall be assigned or transferred without the written
consent of the board, and no approval shall be given to a transfer to any
person unless it shall be shown to be qualified to carry out the contract.
   B.   The contractor shall carry such public liability and property damage
insurance as is required by the board.
   C.   The contractor shall not charge rates other than those specifically
approved by the board, and he shall have the right to request, as may be
reasonable from time to time, modification in such terms as may be provided in
the contract.
   D.   The contractor shall collect solid waste from each residential customer
at least once each week. The contractor shall follow the traveled portion of
the streets, alleys and roadways, or sidewalks or walkways while on private
property, and shall take care in loading solid waste so that none of the
material to be collected is left upon private property or the streets, alleys
or roadways. The contractor shall return the containers with all properly
prepared and legal contents removed and replace the lid thereon.
   E.   The contractor shall furnish vehicles designed for the collection and
hauling of waste. The contractor shall keep such vehicles designed for the
collection and hauling of waste. The contractor shall keep such vehicles
painted and in good running order, and shall clean and disinfect such vehicles
frequently and as necessary. Each vehicle shall be equipped with a watertight
metal body, or if a wood body, shall be metal lined so as to be watertight and
each vehicle, shall at all times be provided with a suitable cover of an
approved type that may be securely fastened on all sides when required to
retain dust and prevent scattering waste.
   F.   The contract shall grant the right of ingress and egress, to cross all
public streets and alleys and rights of way in the county. It shall be unlawful
for any person to deny reasonable access to the contractor to collect waste
from a premises.
   G.   The contractor shall not place in any street, in carrying out this
contract, any obstructions to traffic. Collections shall be made on the streets
and rights of way of the county in a manner of least delay and inconvenience to
the public. The contractor will use backways and alleys wherever possible.
   H.   A performance bond running to the county, in an amount determined by
the board shall be deposited to guarantee the faithful performance of the
contract. An annual renewable bond may be used, provided that a sixty (60) day
renewal commitment shall be submitted annually prior to the expiration date.
   I.   The contractor shall not be required to collect, transport, or dispose
of hazardous material, radioactive materials, dangerous drugs, or items not
allowed in disposal sites.
   J.   The contractor shall only dispose of solid waste in the disposal sites
as set forth in section
5-2-5 of this chapter.
   K.   The contractor shall work with, and be paid for services, by billing
services. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-8-3: EXCEPTIONS TO EXCLUSIVE CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS:
The following activities are exceptions to the requirement for an exclusive
contract:
   A.   Persons who self-haul their own waste pursuant to section
5-2-4-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Owners and occupants of commercial premises who self-haul their own
waste pursuant to subsection
5-2-4-4C of this chapter.
   C.   A contractor employed to demolish, construct or remodel a building or
structure, including, but not limited to, land clearing operations and
construction wastes, when collecting or transporting wastes is created in
connection with such employment.
   D.   Landscapers, gardeners, tree service contractors, janitors or renderers
when collecting or transporting wastes created in connection with such
employment.
   E.   A contractor employed to clean up construction or demolition sites when
collecting and transporting wastes which are created in connection with such
employment. Contractors employed to clean up construction or demolition sites
are prohibited from dropping and leaving waste collection containers on site.
   F.   Federal or state agencies that collect, store, transport and dispose of
solid waste or those who contract with such agencies to perform the service,
but only insofar as the service is performed by or for such agencies. (Ord.
577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-8-4: REPORTS AND STATEMENTS:
It shall be the duty of any contractor granted a contract to collect and haul
solid waste hereunder to submit to the board audited and certified reports and
statements as a condition of the contract granted, for the purpose of enabling
the board to determine whether the public welfare and interest of the county
are being adequately served under said contract. Such report shall include a
profit and loss statement and certification that the report is audited and that
the accounting procedures used were the usual procedures for the type of
business involved. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005)
5-2-9: OPEN ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The division of solid waste management may allow establishment of open
accounts for the benefit of persons who regularly self- haul waste to a county
operated disposal site. Eligibility for establishing open accounts will be
determined on frequency of use, amount of material requiring disposal, and
evidence of a satisfactory credit history. The division of solid waste
management reserves the right to approve or disapprove establishment and
maintenance of open accounts. Customers with delinquent accounts may be
restricted in use of their accounts.
   B.   Violation of subsection
5-2-10C6 of this chapter is cause for immediate revocation of open account
privileges. Upon revocation of open account privileges, all charges are due
immediately, the account is suspended and services must be paid for in cash.
   C.   Qualifying nonprofit organizations, upon application and approval, may
be granted reduced disposal fees for material self-hauled to a county operated
disposal site, under the following conditions:
      1.   All waste must be generated from within Ada County;
      2.   Only those wastes generated from the operation of the organization
within Ada County will be eligible for reduced disposal fees. All other wastes
shall be subject to the applicable rates;
      3.   The waste cannot contain any putrescible materials; and
      4.   The waste must not contain any hazardous material and must be in
accordance with guidelines governing waste acceptance at disposal sites.
   D.   All billing for open accounts, as set forth herein, shall be rendered
monthly and due on the twentieth day of the month in which the bill is
received.
   E.   Open account bills for which payment is not received by the twentieth
are delinquent and subject to late fees. Upon delinquency, all charges and
penalties are due immediately and the account is suspended, and services must
be paid for in cash. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
5-2-10: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The commercial collection, transportation or disposal of waste for
profit or gain by any person without a contract, franchise agreement, license
or permit issued by the board is prohibited.
   B.   No contractor, person, or government entity shall haul, hold for
transfer, transport or dispose of or allow accumulation of any waste within the
areas covered by this chapter except to or in a disposal site and in a manner
and under conditions established for operation of a disposal site.
   C.   Set forth below are the primary conditions concerning the types and
amounts of waste material allowed for deposit at county operated disposal
sites:
      1.   No hazardous wastes are allowed.
      2.   No sewage or human fecal matter is allowed.
      3.   No "liquid waste", as defined in this chapter.
      4.   Unless otherwise permitted by the division of solid waste
management, all metal containers or drums larger than five (5) gallons in
capacity shall have both ends removed and all plastic containers of like size,
excluding sacks, shall have at least a twenty five (25) square inch opening cut
in both ends.
      5.   All medical waste that consists of or includes sharpened or pointed
items shall be packaged in one gallon or smaller rigid plastic containers and
said container shall be completely sealed on both ends and identified.
      6.   No waste of any type shall be accepted or deposited that: a) became
waste when located outside the boundaries of Ada County and b) was then brought
into Ada County. This prohibition does not apply to waste generated as a result
of recreation activities at the Bogus Basin Recreation Area.
   D.   No toxic, hazardous, or liquid waste shall be deposited in any refuse
container intended for transportation to a disposal site.
   E.   No household hazardous waste shall be deposited in any refuse container
intended for transport to a disposal site.
   F.   Commercially or industrially generated hazardous waste shall not be
deposited in any refuse container intended for transport to a disposal site.
   G.   No container used to store a liquid, hazardous waste, or toxic material
will be accepted for disposal at a county operated disposal site unless emptied
and prepared in accordance with solid waste management division guidelines.
Fuel tanks must be cleaned and perforated before they will be accepted for
disposal. No compressed gas or air tanks will be accepted, except for propane
tanks which are five (5) gallons or less in capacity, provided that solid waste
management personnel or hazardous waste screeners at the public disposal area
are first notified.
   H.   No biomedical waste shall be placed in any container or any public
disposal area unless handled and treated in accordance with solid waste
management division requirements.
   I.   No hot ashes and/or material capable of causing ignition or spontaneous
combustion shall be placed in any refuse container, vehicle, or public disposal
area.
   J.   No used motor oil or other automotive fluids shall be permitted in any
refuse container. Used motor oil will be accepted at Ada County's household
hazardous materials collection facility. Only household quantities of these
materials are acceptable at the collection facility.
   K.   The solid waste management division reserves the right to prohibit, or
to place disposal restrictions upon, any waste that may adversely affect a
county operated disposal site. This shall also extend to any item that may pose
a risk to the health or safety of employees at a county operated disposal site.
Disposal restrictions that may be implemented shall include, but are not
limited to, item size restrictions, quantity restrictions, ability to recycle,
special preparation requirements, and refuse source documentation requirements.
   L.   No person may divert to personal use any recyclable material placed in
a container as part of the residential recycling program without the consent of
the generator of such recyclable material, the contractor, or the solid waste
management division, and no person may divert to commercial use any recyclable
material placed in a sanitary container as part of a recycling program without
the consent of the person owning or operating such sanitary container.
   M.   An exemption to subsections A and B of this section shall exist for
persons to fill, grade or deposit inorganic solid waste in or upon property
other than a disposal site, on the conditions that only inorganic solid waste
be used and that the activity shall be subject to and done in accordance with
the Ada County building code. In the event it is established that the filling,
grading, or depositing of inorganic solid waste does not require a permit as
set forth in the building code, and the amount of inorganic solid waste
necessary to complete the filling, grading or depositing project exceeds a
total of ten (10) cubic yards, then the landowner(s) on whose property such
activity is to be conducted shall, before such activity is begun, obtain a
permit issued by the solid waste management division and development services.
No such activity may be lawfully undertaken without such a permit. The decision
to grant or deny such a permit shall be dependent on compliance with conditions
and standards designed to foster and protect the safety, health and welfare of
the public.
   N.   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, violation of any regulation,
requirement, prohibition or condition of this chapter or the provisions of any
permit issued pursuant thereto shall be a misdemeanor. If the violation is not
remedied within three (3) days after citation or arrest is made by the proper
enforcing officer, said violation shall constitute a new and separate offense.
All such violations shall be punishable as provided in section 18-113, Idaho
Code as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled. Civil suits in
addition to criminal prosecution may also be filed by Ada County to enforce the
regulations and requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 577, 3-22-2005; amd. Ord.
603, 1-30-2006; amd. Ord. 744, 2-23-2010)
CHAPTER 3
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Drive-In Establishments
5-3-1: DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Definition: The terms "drive-in establishment" or "drive- in" are
defined as a place of business wherein beverages, foods or refreshments are
served to patrons for consumption on the premises at tables or stands in open
or enclosed areas, or in any vehicle stopped, standing or parked in or upon the
premises of said drive-in, or in or upon any street, alley, land, parking area
or grounds immediately adjacent to said premises, or adjacent to or adjoining
any street or public right of way abutting said premises.
   B.   Notices Posted: Persons owning, operating, managing or conducting a
drive-in shall place in conspicuous places at said drive-in, signs on which are
written in legible English, in letters at least two inches (2") in height on
contrasting background, words or phrases requesting patrons to refrain from
throwing any waste material upon parking areas, sidewalks, streets, roadways,
or gutters, or adjoining property.
   C.   Prohibitions: No person shall place, throw or deposit any waste
material upon the outside premises or parking area of a drive-in restaurant or
on any street, alley or adjoining property or in the vicinity of a drive-in
restaurant, except in adequate receptacles provided for that purpose, nor shall
the owner of a drive-in or his agent permit such conduct.
   D.   Property Owner Responsible: Said owner or his agent or operator shall
keep the premises whereon the drive-in restaurant is located, together with the
parking area and that portion of any street or alley adjoining the drive-in
restaurant free from waste material. The owner or his agent or operator shall
provide the drive-in restaurant with a sufficient number of adequate refuse
containers.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine as provided by Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be
amended and/or retitled or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
exceeding thirty (30) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 26, 6-
23-1965; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES CODE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Soliciting On Public Ways
5-4-2: Possession Of Firearms
5-4-3: Discharging A Firearm In A Public Building
5-4-4: Disorderly Conduct
5-4-5: Fighting
5-4-6: Camping In Boise River Area
5-4-7: Trespass Upon A Military Training Base
5-4-8: Ada County Emergency Boise Front Closure Ordinance
5-4-9: Use Of Tobacco Products And Electronic Cigarettes In County Buildings Or
County Facilities
5-4-10: Unmanned Aircraft
5-4-1: SOLICITING ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Rides: It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit a ride for
himself or another from within the right-of-way of any street or highway of
this County or from any sidewalk located therein. The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to prevent a person upon a public highway from
soliciting or a driver of a vehicle from giving a ride where an emergency
actually exists, nor to prevent a person from signaling or requesting
transportation from a commercial passenger carrier for the purpose of becoming
a passenger thereon for hire. Any person claiming that an emergency does exist
under the provisions of this section shall bear the burden of proving same.
   B.   Employment Or Business: No person shall stand in a roadway or on a
sidewalk and solicit employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be punishable by imprisonment
in the Ada County Jail for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, a fine not
to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), or both such imprisonment and fine.
(Ord. 55, 8-22-1974)
5-4-2: POSSESSION OF FIREARMS:
(Ord. 96, 9-17-1980; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006; rep. by Ord. 775, 4-11-2011)
5-4-3: DISCHARGING A FIREARM IN A PUBLIC BUILDING:
   A.   Any person who shall discharge any firearm, while in a public building
owned or leased by Ada County, while not pointed or aimed at or toward any
person, and without injury to any person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00),
or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than one month, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Any person who shall discharge any firearm, while in a public building
owned or leased by Ada County, while intentionally, without malice, aimed at or
toward any person, and without injury to any person, shall be guilty of
misdemeanor. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   Any person who shall discharge any firearm, while in a public building
owned or leased by Ada County, while carelessly, recklessly or negligently
handling, using, or operating the firearm and injures another person, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more
than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   D.   Any person who, while in a public building owned or leased by Ada
County, shall injure any other person by the discharge of any firearm pointed
or aimed, intentionally, but without malice, at any such person, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Violation of this section shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more
than six (6) months nor less than one month, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   E.   It shall not be a crime under this section to point a firearm at a
person or discharge a firearm in the lawful defense of person or persons or
property or for a law enforcement officer to point a firearm at a person or to
discharge a firearm in the conduct of his or her duties.
   F.   Any person who shall discharge a firearm as defined in subsection A, B,
C, or D of this section, if said discharge occurs at a gun show event held at
Expo Idaho, shall be banned from future gun show events at Expo Idaho. (Ord.
184, 11-9-1987; amd. Ord. 305, 9-25-1996; amd. Ord. 363, 8-31-1998; amd. Ord.
603, 1-30-2006; amd. Ord. 736, 12-22-2009; amd. Ord. 865, 3-21-2017)
5-4-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Any person who shall conduct himself/herself in a violent, noisy, or riotous
manner, or in any way commit a breach of the peace of another person(s), and/or
who shall conduct himself/herself in a manner that endangers the health and
safety of another person(s), and/or who conducts himself/herself in any other
manner as specified in this section, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and a
violation of this section shall also include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   Accosting other persons in any public place, or in any place open to
the public, for the purpose of begging or soliciting.
   B.   Engaging in or soliciting anyone to engage in lewd, lascivious, or
dissolute behavior in a public place, or in a place open to the public, or in
view from a public place.
   C.   Occupying, lodging or sleeping in any building, structure or place,
whether public or private, or any automobile, truck, railroad car or other
similar vehicles or equipment without the permission of the owner or the person
entitled to the possession or in control thereof.
   D.   Failing or refusing to disperse immediately upon an order to do so by a
police officer, when two (2) or more persons are assembled for the purpose of
committing an unlawful act.
   E.   Interfering with any police officer or authorized official of the
County, in the performance of duties connected with enforcement of this
section.
Any peace officer empowered to enforce this provision of this Code is
authorized to issue a uniform citation upon his/her own observation of a
violation without the necessity of a citizen complainant's signature on the
citation. By signing the citation, the peace officer empowered to enforce this
provision certifies that he/she has reasonable grounds to believe that the
person cited committed the offense contrary to law. Any citizen or person in
whose presence an alleged violation of this provision occurred may also sign a
uniform citation, which is to be witnessed by a peace officer. (Ord. 736, 12-
22-2009)
5-4-5: FIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly
fight with another person in a public place. "Fighting" means any use of
physical force on the person of another in an angry, rude, or threatening
manner, or in a manner, which may endanger or disturb the peace of others. A
violation of this section will be punishable as a misdemeanor.
Any peace officer empowered to enforce this provision of this Code is
authorized to issue a uniform citation upon his/her own observation of a
violation without the necessity of a citizen complainant's signature on the
citation. By signing the citation, the peace officer empowered to enforce this
provision certifies that he/she has reasonable grounds to believe that the
person cited committed the offense contrary to law. Any citizen or person in
whose presence an alleged violation of this provision occurred may also sign a
uniform citation, which is to be witnessed by a peace officer. (Ord. 736, 12-
22-2009)
5-4-6: CAMPING IN BOISE RIVER AREA:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY
BOISE RIVER CAMPING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority And Purpose: This section is enacted pursuant to authority
conferred by article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution, and sections 31-
714 and 31-801 of the Idaho Code. The Board of Ada County Commissioners finds
that persons who establish campsites in the Boise River area often
inappropriately discard sewage and debris; that such improper disposal of
wastes creates a potential for the spread of disease; that persons who
establish campsites in the Boise River area also interfere with the public's
comfortable enjoyment of life and property by obstructing the free passage or
use, in the customary manner, of the Boise River and its pathways. This
section, therefore, in furtherance of protecting the public health, safety and
welfare, provides a procedure for abating camping in the Boise River area.
   C.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply. Any words or phrases not defined in this section
should be given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted meanings.
    BOISE RIVER AREA: The land adjacent to the Boise River in unincorporated
Ada County for a distance of two hundred feet (200') horizontally landward from
the ordinary high water mark.
   CAMPING: The use of land for living accommodation purposes such as sleeping
activities, or making preparations to sleep (including the laying down of
bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or storing personal belongings, or making
any fire, or using any tents or shelter or other structure or vehicle for
sleeping or doing any digging or earth breaking, or carrying on cooking
activities. The above listed activities constitute camping when it reasonably
appears, in light of all the circumstances, that the participants, in
conducting these activities, are in fact using the area as a living
accommodation regardless of the intent of the participants or the nature of any
other activities in which they may also be engaging.
   D.   Camping In Boise River Area Prohibited: Camping in or upon any
sidewalk, side alley, lane, public right of way or other place to which the
general public has access in the Boise River area, or under any bridgeway or
viaduct in the Boise River area is unlawful. It shall be a separate offense for
each day that the public nuisance is maintained, kept or allowed to exist.
   E.   Enforcement Procedure:
      1.   When a violation of this section is suspected within Ada County, the
Ada County Sheriff shall serve a written notice that a public nuisance exists
on the person or persons in violation of this section. Such service shall be by
personal service. If written notice cannot be served personally, the notice
shall be posted by being affixed to a building or other place on the premises
or property so conspicuous that any person occupying, possessing or using the
premises or property can be reasonably expected to see it.
      2.   The written notice shall describe the nuisance, advise that the
nuisance must be abated within twenty four (24) hours from the time of the
notice, advise that civil proceedings and/or criminal proceedings may be
initiated if the nuisance is not abated, advise that costs of court proceedings
and the nuisance abatement may be assessed against the person or persons
unlawfully camping in or upon the premises.
   F.   Punishment: Every person who violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Violation of this section shall be punishable as provided by Idaho
Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled.
The above penalties shall in no way limit Ada County from filing a civil claim
against the violator.
   G.   Severability: If any paragraph, subparagraph, or portion of this
section is subsequently deemed in any way contrary to law, inapplicable, or
otherwise void, that portion will be severed from this section and in no way
affect the remaining portions. (Ord. 148, 3-24-1986; amd. Ord. 268, 10-14-1993;
amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006; amd. Ord. 736, 12-22-2009)
5-4-7: TRESPASS UPON A MILITARY TRAINING BASE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote the public health
and safety by prohibiting the entry upon a military training site except in
those circumstances where an individual enters the subject property with the
expressed consent of the Idaho military division; in addition to prohibiting
the removal of the personal property of the Idaho military division from a
military firing range. This section is intended to enhance criminal
prosecutions, and shall not be construed in a manner which would increase the
law enforcement duties of the Sheriff of Ada County as those duties currently
exist under State law.
   B.   Definitions:
    ENTERING: Going upon or over real property either in person or by causing
any object, substance or force to go upon or over real property.
   MILITARY TRAINING SITE: Shall include all real property located within Ada
County as is described on Exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein,
incorporated herein by reference and available for public inspection at the
office of the Ada County Clerk, 650 Main, Boise, Idaho.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY OF THE IDAHO MILITARY DIVISION: Shall include, but shall
not be limited to: all exploded gun shell casings, unexploded bullets,
missiles, rockets, projectiles, signs or targets or any other military property
owned by the Department of the Army, the Idaho Military Division, or any
National Guard unit.
   PROPERLY POSTED: The display of "No Trespassing" signs or similar notices at
all roads and other reasonable points of access.
   C.   Trespassing Prohibited: Every person who commits any of the following
acts is guilty of a misdemeanor:
      1.   Entering without the permission of the Idaho Military Division, upon
the real property comprising the military training site, when said property is
properly posted with "No Trespassing" signs or other notices of like meaning.
      2.   Taking and carrying away of any personal property of the Idaho
Military Division located within the military firing range without the
expressed prior permission of the Idaho Military Division.
   D.   Punishment For Misdemeanor: Violation of this section shall be
punishable as provided by Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may from time to time
be amended and/or retitled. (Ord. 164, 2-19-1987; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006;
amd. Ord. 736, 12-22-2009)
5-4-8: ADA COUNTY EMERGENCY BOISE FRONT CLOSURE ORDINANCE:
(Ord. 317, 10-1-1996; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006; amd. Ord. 736, 12-22-2009; rep.
per correspondence dated 8-27-2010)
5-4-9: USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES IN COUNTY BUILDINGS OR
COUNTY FACILITIES:
   A.   Definitions: The definitions of "tobacco product" and "electronic
cigarette" shall be as set forth in title 2, chapter 2 of this Code.
   B.   Violation: It shall be a violation of this section for any person to
light, use, inhale, or consume any tobacco product or electronic cigarette in
County buildings or County facilities, provided that this prohibition shall not
apply to County owned parking lots.
   C.   Penalty: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-5507, a person violating
this section shall be guilty of an infraction, the penalty of which shall be
seventeen dollars fifty cents ($17.50). (Ord. 842, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 844, 7-
21-2015)
5-4-10: UNMANNED AIRCRAFT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is not to preempt the Federal
Aviation Administration regulations (FARs), but to operate in conjunction with
those rules to promote public safety and welfare of Ada County and its
residents while recognizing the FAA's enforcement capabilities.
   B.   Definition: Unmanned aircraft, also known as an "unmanned aircraft
system" (UAS) means an unmanned aircraft vehicle, drone, remotely piloted
vehicle, remotely piloted aircraft or remotely operated aircraft that is a
powered aerial vehicle that does not carry a human operator, can fly
autonomously or remotely and can be expendable or recoverable 1 .
   C.   Registration And Certificate: Every individual operating a UAS must
register the same, excluding model aircraft, with the FAA and must obtain a
remote pilot certificate from the FAA as required by 14 CFR part 107 rule or
the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 section 333 (the "section 333
rule"). The individual is required to have the pilot certificate readily
available while operating the UAS.
   D.   Prohibitions: No person shall operate an unmanned aircraft:
      1.   In a manner that harasses, startles, or annoys pedestrians or
vehicles, threatens their safety and welfare, or creates or causes a public
nuisance, or
      2.   In a reckless or careless manner so as to endanger the life or
property of another, or
      3.   For the purpose of capturing a person's visual image, audio
recording or other physical impression in any place where the person would have
a reasonable expectation of privacy, or
      4.   In a manner that interferes with the lawful efforts of a firefighter
or other public safety officer to extinguish a fire or respond to a medical or
other emergency.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in this section, nothing
in this section shall be construed to prohibit, limit or otherwise restrict any
person who is authorized by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to
operate a UAS in County airspace, pursuant to section 333 of the FAA
Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, the part 107 rule, or a certificate of
waiver, certificate of authorization (COA) or other Federal Aviation
Administration grant of authority to specific flight operation(s), from
conducting such operation(s) in accordance with the authority granted by the
FAA.
      2.   Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in this section, nothing
in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of a UAS by a law
enforcement agency with a warrant or for emergency response for safety search
and rescue or controlled substance investigations, as set forth in Idaho Code
section 21-213(2)(a).
   F.   Violation - Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or
fail to comply with this section. Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to a one hundred
dollar ($100.00) fine.
   G.   Severability: If any provision of this section is held to be invalid by
a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered
severable from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect. (Ord. 883, 5-15-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See Idaho Code § 21-213.
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Delinquent Children
5-5-2: Cigarettes And Tobacco
5-5-1: DELINQUENT CHILDREN:
   A.   Runaways: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years, living or found in Ada County to attempt to run away or to run away
from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian, or to be or remain a
person who has run away from his parents, guardian or legal custodian.
   B.   Uncontrollable Children: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) may
be declared beyond control of his parents, guardians or legal custodian who
persistently or habitually refuses to obey reasonable and proper orders or
directions of his parents, guardians or legal custodians, where that specific
conduct may place him in danger to himself or others or becomes so unreasonably
disruptive that it jeopardizes the family unit. A person under the age of
eighteen (18) may be taken into custody by a peace officer if the peace officer
has reason to believe that the child's continued liberty poses an imminent
danger to that child or to others, as evidenced by a threat of substantial
physical harm or upon complaint by the person's parent, guardian or legal
custodian that said person's specific conduct is so unreasonably disruptive
that it jeopardizes the family unit. Whenever a child is taken into custody
under this section without court order, the evidence supporting the claim of
imminent danger must be presented to a duly authorized court on the next
judicial day.
   C.   Curfew:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to be or to remain, and it shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having the care and custody of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to permit such person to be or to remain, in or upon any
street, alley, public ground, public place or any place open to the public or
exposed to public use within Ada County between the hours of twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any person who
is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of him, nor to any person who is in the performance of an errand or
duty directed by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of him, nor to any person who is actually at the time engaged in
legitimate employment for profit, nor to any person who is attending, or
participating in, any officially sanctioned school activity.
   D.   Encourage Delinquency: It shall be unlawful for any person by any act
or neglect to encourage, aid or cause any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to come within the purview of this section, nor to any person who is
attending, or participating in, any officially sanctioned school activity.
   E.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be punishable by imprisonment
in the Ada County jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months or by a fine
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both such imprisonment
and fine. (Ord. 46-1-80, 2-13-1980; amd. 1984 Code; amd. Ord. 629, 7-31-2006)
5-5-2: CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO:
   A.   Short Title And Purpose: This section shall be known and cited as the
ADA COUNTY TOBACCO ORDINANCE, enacted to prohibit the possession of cigarettes
and other tobacco products by minors, and to prohibit the sale of cigarettes
and other tobacco products to minors.
   B.   Definitions: All words and phrases used in this section, the
definitions of which are not herein given, shall be given their ordinary,
commonly understood and accepted meaning.
The term "tobacco products" shall mean cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco,
pipe tobacco, snuff and any and all other forms of tobacco, as well as any
paper or wrapper intended for the wrapping of tobacco in the form of a
cigarette.
   C.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to buy, accept or have in his possession any cigarette or other tobacco
product in any form, or to buy, accept or have in his possession any cigarette
paper or other paper or wrapper intended for the wrapping of tobacco into the
form of a cigarette. Any person found guilty of violating this subsection C1
shall be punished in accordance with section 18-1502, Idaho Code 1 .
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly
or indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any cigarette
or other tobacco product in any form; or to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any cigarette
paper or other paper or wrapper for the wrapping of tobacco into the form of a
cigarette. Any person found guilty of violating this subsection C2 shall be
punished in accordance with section 18-1502A, Idaho Code 2 . (Ord. 121, 11-18-
1981)
 
Notes
  1. IC § 18-1502 provides penalties of a fine of not more than $100.00 for the
1 first conviction, of not more than $200.00 for the second conviction, and of
  not more than $300.00 or up to 30 days in jail, or both, for third and
  subsequent convictions.
  1. IC § 18-1502A provides for a fine of not more than $100.00 for the first
2 offense, and not more than $300.00 or by imprisonment in the county jail for
  not to exceed 6 months for a second offense.
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Short Title And Purpose
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Exceptions Adopted
5-6-4: Permit Required
5-6-5: Public Display Or Other Event Using Fireworks
5-6-6: Compliance Required, Penalties
5-6-7: Ada County Ban On Use Of Fireworks In Severe Fire Threat Areas
5-6-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY FIREWORKS ORDINANCE, and is
enacted to promote the public health and safety; and to control and regulate
the use of fireworks within the jurisdiction of Ada County. (Ord. 428, 6-26-
2001)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
This chapter shall adopt the definitions stated in section 39-2602, Idaho Code.
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION: A city fire department if the area is within a
city, or a fire protection district formed pursuant to provisions of the Idaho
Code if the area is within a fire protection district, or the county commission
if the area is not within a city or fire protection district.
BOARD: The board of Ada County commissioners.
FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation.
Fireworks include items classified as common or special fireworks by the United
States bureau of explosives or contained in the regulations of the United
States department of transportation and designated as UN 0335 1.3G or UN 0336
1.4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any automotive safety flares, toy
guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed for use with toy guns or toy
cannons, party poppers, pop-its or other devices which contain twenty five
hundredths (0.25) of a grain or less of explosive substance.
NONAERIAL COMMON FIREWORKS: Any fireworks such as ground spinners, fountains,
sparklers, smoke devices or snakes designed to remain on or near the ground and
to travel outside a fifteen foot (15') diameter circle or emit sparks or other
burning material which land outside a twenty foot (20') diameter circle or
above a height of twenty feet (20'). Nonaerial common fireworks do not include
firecrackers, jumping jacks, or similar products.
PERMIT: An authorization given by the authority having jurisdiction pursuant to
section 39-2604 or 39-2605, Idaho Code.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association,
entity, estate, joint venture, firm, government entity, trust, receiver,
syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
PUBLIC DISPLAY OR OTHER EVENT USING FIREWORKS: Any use of fireworks except the
use of nonaerial common fireworks during the normal sales and use period
provided in section 39-2606, Idaho Code.
SPECIAL FIREWORKS: Any fireworks designed primarily for display and classified
as special fireworks by the United States bureau of explosives or designated as
UN 0335 1.3G. (Ord. 428, 6-26-2001)
5-6-3: EXCEPTIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   This chapter shall adopt the exceptions stated in section 39-2610,
Idaho Code; and
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall only apply to the unincorporated
areas within Ada County which are also outside any fire protection districts
formed pursuant to provisions of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 428, 6-26-2001)
5-6-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold a public display of fireworks or
other event using fireworks without first obtaining a permit for that purpose
issued pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 428, 6-26-
2001)
5-6-5: PUBLIC DISPLAY OR OTHER EVENT USING FIREWORKS:
   A.   A written application for a permit is required to hold a public display
or other event using fireworks. Such application shall be on a form provided by
Ada County and shall be presented to the recorder with:
      1.   For a public display of special fireworks, a bond or valid
certificate of public liability and property-casualty insurance providing
coverage of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury
and property damage; and
      2.   For a public display event, a permit fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00).
   B.   In order for the permit to be issued, the applicant must ensure that
the public display or other event using fireworks will be supervised by a
qualified person and will not constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons or
property.
   C.   A permit for use of fireworks outside the normal sales period set forth
in Idaho Code section 39-2606 and/or for use of special fireworks will be
issued if the board finds: 1) the applicant has provided all information
required by Ada County and 2) the proposed use will not constitute an
unreasonable hazard to persons or property.
   D.   A permit issued under this chapter shall be nontransferable, and shall
list the specific date or dates upon which the display or event shall be
permitted and the types of fireworks and uses that will be allowed. (Ord. 428,
6-26-2001; amd. Ord. 664, 5-1-2007)
5-6-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED, PENALTIES:
It shall be the duty of every person issued any permit pursuant to this chapter
to comply with all the provisions of the fireworks act of 1997 1  and this
chapter. A violation of the aforesaid fireworks act or any of the provisions of
this chapter by the permittee, or by any of its agents, employees, or officers
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable according to section 18-113, Idaho
Code as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled and/or the person
committing the violation may be criminally or civilly enjoined from continuing
the violation. (Ord. 428, 6-26-2001; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-2601 et seq.
5-6-7: ADA COUNTY BAN ON USE OF FIREWORKS IN SEVERE FIRE THREAT AREAS:
   A.   Short Title And Purpose: This section shall be known and cited as the
BAN ON FIREWORKS IN UNINCORPORATED ADA COUNTY. The purpose of this section is
to ban the use of fireworks in all unincorporated areas of Ada County outside
fire protection districts to lessen the danger of fires in those areas, where
vegetative conditions during any fire season constitutes a severe fire threat.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply. Any other words and phrases not defined in this section shall be
given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted meanings.
   FIRE SEASON: The period of time between June 1 and October 31 of any given
year.
   FIREWORKS 1 : Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation. Fireworks
include items classified as common or special fireworks by the United States
bureau of explosives or contained in the regulations of the United States
department of transportation and designated as UN 0335 1.3 or UN 0336 1.4G. The
term "fireworks" shall not include any automotive safety flares, toy guns, toy
cannons, party poppers, or pop-its or other devices which contain twenty five
hundredths (0.25) of a grain or less of explosive substance.
   SEVERE FIRE THREAT: A determination of the county board of commissioners
authorized under Idaho Code section 39-2609(4), which is made as needed by
yearly resolution duly passed by the board of county commissioners before or
during the fire season.
   UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF ADA COUNTY OUTSIDE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS: Any
area located in Ada County which is outside the city limits of any city within
Ada County and outside the boundaries of any fire protection district formed
pursuant to title 31, chapter 14, Idaho Code. The area, which will be subject
to county enforcement pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-2612, will be depicted
on a map to be attached to the yearly resolution, if any, and shown as a white
area with crosshatching.
   C.   Prohibition And Penalty: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any
person to use fireworks in unincorporated areas of Ada County outside fire
protection districts during the fire season. Violation of this section shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor as set forth in Idaho Code section 18-113, as it
may be amended or recodified from time to time. (Enacted by Ord. 395, 6-30-
2000, expired 10-31-2000; amd. Ord. 427, 6-19-2001, expired 10-31-2001; amd.
Ord. 456, 6-28-2002, expired 10-31-2002; amd. Ord. 507, 6-24-2003, expired 10-
31-2003; amd. Ord. 550, 6-23-2004, expired 10-31-2004; amd. Ord. 583, 5-24-
2005, expired 10-31-2005; amd. Ord. 625, 6-27-2006, expired 10-31-2006; amd.
Ord. 671, 6-26-2007, expired 10-31-2007; amd. Ord. 701, 6-24-2008, expired 10-
31-2008; amd. Ord. 760, 8-23-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-2602(3).
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Short Title And Purpose
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Cruelty To Animals
5-7-4: Prohibited Animals
5-7-5: Dog Licenses
5-7-6: Limitations On Number Of Dogs Or Cats
5-7-7: Non Commercial And Commercial Kennel Licenses
5-7-8: Dogs Running At Large Prohibited
5-7-9: Found Stray Animals
5-7-10: Rabies Control, Quarantine
5-7-11: Animals Presenting An Immediate Danger
5-7-12: Directing A Dog To Harass Or Attack
5-7-13: Criminal Responsibility for Dog Bites And Attacks
5-7-14: Habitual Barking Or Noisemaking; Nuisance
5-7-15: Enforcement Official; Animal Shelter
5-7-16: Obstructing Animal Control Officer
5-7-17: Impounding Of Animals
5-7-18: Habitual Violator
5-7-19: Designation And Management Of Dangerous Or At-Risk Dogs
5-7-20: Appeal Procedure For Affected Persons
5-7-21: Denying Ownership
5-7-22: Penalties
5-7-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This Chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE, and is
enacted to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the people of Ada
County and the humane and safe treatment of various animals, including dogs,
and to establish all required procedures and regulations for the licensing and
control of dogs and kennels. (Ord. 122, 12-23-1981; amd. Ord. 160, 12-10-1986;
amd. Ord. 734, 1-13-2010; amd. Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
              To leave an animal unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours without the
              owner making arrangements for its food, water and shelter, or releasing the
              animal upon public highways or public or private property. Shall not apply to a
ABANDON:      person who captures a free roaming At Large domestic cat, transports the cat to a
              veterinarian for sterilization surgery, and releases the cat in the approximate
              location in which it was found for the purpose of cat population control. Shall
              not apply to the Animal Control Agency.
AFFECTED      Any person, in particular owners, whose rights to own or possess an animal have
PERSON:       been adversely impacted by a specific decision to enforce any provision of this
              Chapter against that person.
              Animals shall be classified as follows: Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish,
ANIMAL:       bird (including all fowl and poultry) or other member commonly accepted as part
              of the animal kingdom.
ANIMAL        Any organization(s) authorized by the County to enforce the provisions of this
CONTROL       Chapter.
AGENCY:
ANIMAL        Any individual authorized by the County or the Animal Control Agency to enforce
CONTROL       the provisions of this Chapter, to include, state or local law enforcement
OFFICER:      officers whose duties include assignments that involve animal seizure and
              impoundment.
ANIMAL        An animal control facility authorized by the County or the Animal Control Agency
CONTROL       as the location for the impounding of animals.
SHELTER:
              Any domesticated animal off or away from the premises of the owner or private
              land that the owner has permission to be on, and not under the control of such
              owner or his agent by leash, cord or chain (not to exceed 6 feet), by
AT LARGE:     confinement, within a vehicle, or otherwise restrained and under the immediate
              physical control of a competent and responsible attendant. Unless, such animal is
              a Service Animal, assisting its owner or custodian in legal hunting, working,
              herding, or controlling of livestock in a place that such activity may legally
              occur.
              Any dog that:
              A.   Without justified provocation bites a person without causing a traumatic
              injury, as defined in Idaho Code § 18-918(1)(b); or
AT-RISK DOG:  B.   Without justified provocation and while At Large has killed, inflicted
              injury, or otherwise caused injury to a domestic animal by attacking a domestic
              animal not on the real property of the owner of the dog.
              C.   Has previously been found to be an at-risk dog pursuant to the Idaho Code or
              a substantially conforming ordinance or statute from foreign jurisdiction.
ATTACK:       Any aggressive action by an animal that a reasonable person would conclude places
              any person or domestic animal in reasonable belief of imminent bodily harm.
BARKING:      A vocal sound produced by a dog that annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of
              normal sensitivities.
BITE OR       When the skin of an individual or other animal has been broken or penetrated by
BITTEN:       an animal's teeth in an act of aggression, attack or defense.
CAT:          Both the male and female of the Felidae species.
COMMERCIAL    See definition of Kennel, Commercial in Title 8 Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
KENNEL:       8-1A-1: Definitions.
COMPANION     Any animals solely kept as pets including, but not limited to, domestic dogs,
ANIMAL:       domestic cats, rabbits, companion birds, and other animals.
              An animal that has received a primary rabies vaccine at least thirty (30) days
              ago, and no more than one (1) year ago or has received a booster vaccine
              administered according to the manufacturer's written instructions. The rabies
CURRENT       vaccine shall be licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture for use
RABIES        in that species (a list of the currently licensed vaccines can be found in the
VACCINATION:  current "Compendium of Animal Rabies Vaccines" prepared and updated annually by
              the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians). Rabies
              vaccination must be performed by or under the direct supervision of a
              veterinarian who is licensed or legally permitted to practice veterinary
              medicine.
              Any dog that:
              A.   Without justified provocation has inflicted serious injury on a person:
              B.   Has been previously be found to be at-risk and thereafter bites or
DANGEROUS     physically harms a person without justified provocation;
DOG:          C.   Has previously been found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to the Idaho Code
              or a substantially conforming ordinance or statute from foreign jurisdiction; or
              D.   Has been previously found to be at-risk and thereafter inflicts injury to a
              domestic animal not on the real property of the owner of the dog.
DOG:          Both the male and female of the Canine species.
              The procedure in which an animal is humanely killed by a method that is painless
EUTHANASIA:   to the animal and causing unconsciousness and death. This procedure is to be
              performed by a certified euthanasia technician or licensed veterinarian in
              accordance with Idaho Code, Title 54, Chapter 21.
              Allowing an animal to remain, or to be lodged, fed or sheltered on real property
HARBORING:    the owner occupies or controls for twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, or for one
              (1) or more hours per day for three (3) consecutive days.
IMPOUND:      To receive into the custody of the Animal Control Shelter or an Animal Control
              Officer.
              To perform any act or omission that a reasonable person with common knowledge of
              dog or cat behavior would conclude is likely to precipitate a bite or attack by
              an ordinary dog or cat. Justified provocation includes, but is not limited to,
              the following:
              A.   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate vicinity
              of the dog or cat from an attack or assault;
              B.   The person was committing a crime or offense upon the property of the owner
              or custodian of the dog or cat;
JUSTIFIED     C.   The person was at the time, or had in the past, willfully tormented, abused
PROVOCATION:  or assaulted the dog or cat;
              D.   The dog or cat was responding to immediate pain or injury or protecting its
              offspring;
              E.   The dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog, or predator control dog
              on the property of, or under the control of, its owner or keeper, and the damage
              or injury sustained was to a person who was interfering with the dog while the
              dog was working in a place where it was lawfully engaged in such activity,
              including public lands; or
              F.   The person was intervening between two (2) or more animals engaged in
              aggressive behavior or fighting, unless one or both of the animals is At Large.
              Any rope, leather strap, chain or other material six (6) feet or less in length,
LEASH:        intended to be held in the hand of a person for the purpose of controlling an
              animal to which it is attached.
NONBITE       Saliva from an animal who has come in contact with a person's open wound or mucus
EXPOSURE:     membrane that may pose health concerns.
NONCOMMERCIAL See definition of Kennel, Hobby in Title 8 Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
KENNEL:       8-1A-1: Definitions.
OTHER SUPPORT Any animal defined as a "service dog" by Department of Justice Regulations at 28
OR THERAPY    C.F.R. § 35.104 or any successor or amended regulation.
ANIMALS:
              To keep, harbor, or have control, charge or custody of an animal. Animals kept in
OWN:          the custody of a minor or incapacitated person shall be deemed to be owned by the
              minor's parent(s), guardian or other designated responsible person where the
              minor or incapacitated person resides.
              Any person who keeps, harbors, or has control, charge or custody of, or permits
OWNER:        any animal to remain on their property. In the event that a minor falls under the
              definition of "Owner," the parent or guardian shall be liable for all injuries,
              property damage, fines and impoundment fees caused or incurred by the animal.
              Any individual, corporation, non-profit, society, co-partnership, limited
PERSON:       partnership, limited liability company, association, or any other legal or
              business entity.
              A person performing an act or omission that an ordinary and reasonable person
PROVOKE:      would conclude is likely to precipitate dog aggression in the form of a bite or
              attack.
PUBLICLY      Property owned, leased or otherwise used by tax supported agencies. (Example:
OWNED         County parks, schools, post office.)
PROPERTY:
              The strict confinement of an animal in a manner which limits direct contact with
QUARANTINE:   other animals not in quarantine or persons other than the owner or caretaker. The
              quarantine shall be conducted by way of an order issued by the Animal Control
              Agency designating the specific place, manner and provisions of the quarantine.
RABIES        Any animal which has bitten, scratched, or broken the skin of an individual or
SUSPECT       has been bitten, scratched or otherwise wounded or had contact with a rabid
ANIMAL:       animal; or any animal showing symptoms suggestive of rabies or any animal that is
              suspected of having rabies in any way.
RESIDENCE:    Refers to the place of abode for a person or family that is more than merely
              temporary shelter.
SANITIZE:     To make physically clean to the maximum degree that is practical.
SECURE        An enclosure that securely holds an animal.
ENCLOSURE:
              Means an injury to a person characterized by bruising, laceration, or other
SERIOUS       injury that would cause a reasonably prudent person to seek treatment from a
INJURY:       medical professional without regard to whether the person actually sought medical
              treatment.
SERVICE       Any animal defined as a "service dog" by Department of Justice Regulations at 28
ANIMAL:       C.F.R. § 35.104 or any successor or amended regulation.
              A dog that is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of
              an individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric,
              intellectual, or other mental disability. Other species of animals, whether wild
              or domestic, trained or untrained, are not service dogs for purposes of this
              Chapter. The work or tasks performed by the service dog must be directly related
              to the individual's disability. Examples of work or tasks include, but are not
              limited to, assisting individuals who are blind or have low vision with
              navigation and other tasks, alerting individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing
              to the presence of people or sounds, providing nonviolent protection or rescue
SERVICE DOG:  work, pulling a wheelchair, assisting an individual during a seizure, alerting
              individuals to the presence of allergens, retrieving items such as medicine or
              the telephone, providing physical support and assistance with balance and
              stability to individuals with mobility disabilities, and helping persons with
              psychiatric and neurological disabilities by preventing or interrupting impulsive
              or destructive behaviors. The crime deterrent effects of an animal's presence and
              the provision of emotional support, well-being, comfort, or companionship do not
              constitute work or tasks for the purposes of this Chapter. Nothing in this
              ordinance shall conflict with the provisions of the Federal Americans with
              Disabilities Act.
              A statement signed by a licensed veterinarian qualifying the medical reason that
              an animal should not be vaccinated for rabies. (Ord. 122, 12-23-1981; amd. Ord.
WAIVER:       160, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 266, 9-23-1993; amd. Ord. 275, 4-7-1994; amd. Ord.
              734, 1-13-2010; amd. Ord. 801, 9-12-2012; amd. Ord. 896, 5-21-2019; amd. Ord.
              945, 1-24-2023)
 
5-7-3: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Standard of Animal Care: Owners shall provide their animals the minimum
standard of care set forth in this Section. Every owner shall provide the
animal with sufficient food, water and shelter according to the following
minimum standards:
      1.   Adequate Food: Animals shall be provided, at intervals not to exceed
twenty-four (24) hours, a quantity of wholesome food specific to the age of the
animal's species that provides a level of nutrition necessary to sustain the
good health of the animal.
      2.   Adequate Quantities of Water: Animals shall at all times have access
clean and fresh water. The owner shall replenish the water supply a minimum of
every twenty-four (24) hours.
      3.   Sanitary Animal Keeping: Owners shall keep their animals in a clean,
sanitary and healthy manner and not confine them in a manner where they are
forced to stand, sit or lie in their own excrement.
      4.   Shelter: Every owner shall provide their Companion Animal with a
shelter structure possessing walls, roof, and raised floor adequate to shield
the animals from wind and rain. The structure shall be adequately ventilated
and provide protection from excessive heat and cold, and shall be commensurate
to the size of the inhabiting animal to permit it to move about freely.
      5.   Tethering: An owner shall not tether a dog or other Companion Animal
through use of a choke collar or tether, or confine an animal in such manner
that it can become entangled to the extent it cannot move freely, or reach
shelter or water, or become entangled with another animal. The area where the
animal is tethered or confined must be free of extraneous material that may
cause it injury (materials such as glass, sharp metal and nails). No animal may
be kept continuously tethered for more than twelve (12) hours during any
twenty-four (24) hour period or tethered on a continuous basis.
      6.   Exercise: Every confined animal must be regularly provided with
physical activity appropriate to their species, age and condition sufficient to
maintain their good health.
      7.   Veterinary Care: The owner of a diseased or injured animal shall
promptly provide the animal with appropriate veterinary care and shall
segregate the diseased animal from other animals, as necessary to prevent the
transmittal of disease.
   B.   Animal Fights Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to attend
or participate in any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, or other such combat
between animals.
   C.   Fighting Equipment: It shall be unlawful to possess cockspurs,
slashers, gaffs, or other tools, equipment, devices or training facilities
intended for purposes for training or engaging an animal in combat with another
animal.
   D.   Animal Exhibition; Circus: It shall be unlawful for an animal
exhibition or circus to perform acts or establish exhibits where the performing
or exhibited animals are induced to perform through the use of chemical,
mechanical, electrical, or manual devices in a manner which is likely to cause
physical injury or suffering.
   E.   Confinement without Food and Water; Intervention: A person observing a
Companion Animal confined without access to food or water for more than twenty-
four (24) hours, should immediately contact the Animal Control Agency. A person
acting in good faith to provide food, water or shelter to a mistreated animal
shall be immune from civil liability.
   F.   Improper Containment of Animal in Motor Vehicle or Trailer: No person
(s) shall permit an animal to be contained within a motor vehicle or trailer
under conditions that endanger the health, safety or wellbeing of the animal.
This provision includes circumstances relating dangerous temperatures or lack
of air, food, water and proper care. An Animal Control Officer, law enforcement
officer or public official who has probable cause to believe a confined animal
is imperiled shall have the authority to enter the motor vehicle or trailer by
any reasonable means after making an effort to locate the owner.
   G.   Abandonment: It shall be unlawful to abandon an animal intentionally,
knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence, or leave an animal at a
location without providing for the animal's continued care. Abandonment
includes the disposing of an animal at or near an animal shelter, veterinary
clinic or other place of shelter without first making provisions for its
reasonable care.
      1.   Exceptions: Section 5-7-3(G) shall not apply to a person who
captures a free roaming At Large domestic cat, transports the cat to a
veterinarian for sterilization surgery, and releases the cat in the approximate
location in which it was found for the purpose of cat population control. Shall
not apply to the Animal Control Agency.
   H.   A violation of this Section shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided for in Section 5-7-23. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-4: PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor,
keep, maintain or possess within the County any of the following animals:
      1.   Mammals:
         a.   All members of the family Felidae (cat family), except
domesticated cats.
         b.   All members of the family Canidae (dog family), except
domesticated dogs.
         c.   All nonhuman primates.
         d.   All members of the order Laurasiatheria, except hedgehogs.
         e.   All rodents, except domestic rats, mice, guinea pigs, hamsters,
gerbils and squirrels not otherwise restricted by Federal law.
         f.   All marine mammals, including, but not limited to, whales,
dolphins and seals.
         g.   All animals from the order Xenarthra, including giant anteaters,
sloths, tamanduas, armadillos and pangolins.
         h.   All members of the family Procyonidae.
         i.   All members of the family Mustelidae, except domestic ferrets
(Mustela putorious).
         j.   All civets, meerkats and members of the family Vivirridae.
         k.   All marsupials, except Virginia opossum, sugar gliders and
bettongs.
         l.   All members of the family Hyaenidae, including, but not limited
to, hyenas and aardwolves.
         m.   All members of the order Tubulidentata (aardvarks).
         n.   All members of the order Hyracoidae (hyraxes).
         o.   All hoofed animals belonging to the orders Perrisodactyla and
Artiodactyla, except domesticated farm or pack animals.
         p.   All members of the family Elephantidae (elephants).
         q.   All members of the order Chiroptera (bats).
         r.   All members of the family Ursidae (bears).
      2.   Birds:
         a.   Ostriches.
         b.   Cassowaries.
         c.   Penguins of any kind.
         d.   Cranes of any kind.
         e.   Flamingos.
         f.   Hornbills.
         g.   Herons and their relatives from the order Ciconiiformes.
         h.   All birds of prey from the order Falconiformes.
         i.   All owls from the order Strigiformes.
         j.   Canadian Geese from the order Anatidae.
      3.   Reptiles:
         a.   Sea turtles of any kind.
         b.   Aldabra or Galapagos tortoises.
         c.   Komodo dragons.
         d.   All members of the order Crocodilia.
         e.   Wild caught Gila monsters and bearded lizards.
         f.   Elapids (family of venomous snakes) except North American
species, such as coral snakes, that are housed under State guidelines.
         g.   Viperids (family of venomous snakes) except North American
species, including, but not limited to, rattlesnakes, cotton mouths and
copperheads that are housed under State guidelines.
         h.   Tuataras.
         i.   Anacondas.
      4.   Insects: All insects listed as agricultural pests by the USDA and
Idaho Department of Agriculture.
   B.   Threatened or Endangered Animals: All animals listed as threatened or
endangered on either a State or Federal level and all illegally imported
animals shall be prohibited in the same manner as those listed in subsection A
of this Section.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this Section shall not apply to keeping
of prohibited animals by:
      1.   Any bona fide, licensed zoo accredited by the Association of Zoos
and Aquariums;
      2.   Any bona fide licensed veterinary hospital for treatment of illness
or injury by licensed veterinarians;
      3.   Bona fide educational or medical institutions accredited by the
Idaho Department of Education;
      4.   Permitted by the Idaho Fish and Game Department or Idaho Department
of Agriculture,
      5.   Any person keeping raptors that has been permitted to do so by the
Idaho Fish and Game Department; and
      6.   A person whose property harbors wildlife or is enhanced with any
structure to provide shelter or habitat to native wildlife such as native
birds, bats, reptiles, amphibians, fish, or mammals which animals, through
their own volition, enter or reside on any such property without being confined
artificially by the property owner. People meeting this exception are not
considered to be harboring or keeping the prohibited animals.
   D.   The owner or custodian of any prohibited animal kept pursuant to an
exception, shall at all times:
      1.   Keep the animal in a cage, enclosure or other confinement that is
designed, constructed, and maintained to preclude the animal's escape. The
cage, enclosure, or confinement shall be of sufficient size to allow the animal
reasonable freedom of movement.
      2.   Keep the animal in a manner that will not threaten or annoy any
person of normal sensitivity.
      3.   Employ adequate safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to the
animal and to prevent the escape of the animal.
      4.   Immediately notify the Animal Control Agency if the animal escapes
and make every reasonable effort to recapture an animal that escapes.
      5.   Allow Animal Control Officers to inspect the animal and the property
to determine whether the owner or custodian is complying with this Section.
      6.   Allow the Animal Control Agency to inspect any permit an agency of
the Federal or State government has issued to the owner or custodian that
regulates the animal.
      7.   Every person keeping a prohibited animal under this Section must
house the animal and care for it in a manner that is humane and in accordance
with the particular requirements of the species, to include compliance with all
State and Federal laws that apply to the welfare of animals.
   E.   Prohibited animals may be impounded by the Animal Control Agency and
the owner liable for related fees and costs as set forth in this Chapter. (Ord.
945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-5: DOG LICENSES:
   A.   Location for Purchasing License: Dog licenses shall be purchased at
locations designated by the Board of Ada County Commissioners.
   B.   License Required; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any person to
own, harbor, keep or possess a dog older than six (6) months of age within the
County without first procuring a license as required by this Chapter, except:
      1.   Dogs whose owners are nonresidents, but who are temporarily residing
within the County for thirty (30) days or less, and possessing a license issued
by another municipality or other licensing authority.
      2.   Dogs brought into the County for the purpose of participating in
shows, exhibits, competitions, or similar events.
      3.   Service Dogs specially trained to assist people with disabilities
where the dog is serving in this capacity.
   C.   License Term; Application; Fees:
      1.   Dog licenses shall be valid until the last day of the month, one (1)
year, three (3) years, or five (5) years from the month of original issue
depending on the duration of license purchased. The owner of the dog located
within the County shall make application at designated locations and pay a
license fee according to the schedule of fees.
      2.   No dog will be licensed as spayed or neutered without proof the
surgery was performed.
      3.   At time of payment the license issuer shall provide a receipt
designating the dog owner's name, license number, animal gender (or status of
spayed or neutered) and the amount paid. A metal tag bearing the number
corresponding to that affixed upon the receipt will also be provided when
purchasing a new license.
      4.   If a license is lost, the dog owner shall apply for a replacement
tag and pay the appropriate fee.
      5.   Dog licenses may be purchased year-round and renewed up to thirty
(30) days prior to expiration.
   D.   Use of Improper or Imitation Dog License: It shall be unlawful for a
person to allow their dog to wear a license tag issued to another dog, or wear
an imitated County license tag representing the current year's registration, or
any tag marked on plate or collar similar to that required by this ordinance.
   E.   Annual License Fees:
      1.   Forty-three dollars and sixty cents ($43.60) for a non-neutered or
non-spayed dog.
      2.   Seventeen dollars and forty cents ($17.40) for a neutered or spayed
dog. A certificate of neuter or spay issued by a veterinarian or the Idaho
Humane Society, Inc., shall be presented at the time the license is applied for
in order to secure the license rate for a neutered or spayed dog.
      3.   Senior citizens (those 65 years of age and over) shall pay a license
fee of nine dollars and seventy-five cents ($9.75).
      4.   Duplicate licenses shall be issued for four dollars ($4.00).
      5.   Other household pets may be licensed annually upon a voluntary basis
for the sum of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per year.
   F.   Exceptions: Any Service Animal shall be licensed at no cost to the
owner. Additionally, there shall be no cost for any dog temporarily in the care
of a shelter who needs to live in a home environment prior to adoption. (Ord.
122, 12-23-1981; amd. Ord. 160, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 384, 11-2-1999; amd. Ord.
734, 1-13-2010; amd. Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-6: LIMITATIONS ON NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS:
   A.   A single residence is limited to a combination of both dogs and cats
not exceeding four (4) total animals, on the premises at one (1) time; unless a
person residing at the residence obtains a valid noncommercial kennel license,
or commercial kennel license, that permits a greater number of dogs or cats.
   B.   For the purposes of this Section, the litter of a female dog or cat may
be kept with its mother and the litter, and shall constitute one (1) dog or cat
until the litter reaches six (6) months of age, at which time this status will
divest and each dog or cat shall be counted as an individual animal.
   C.   A residence may exceed the four (4) dogs or cats per premises limit by
an additional one (1) animal, where one (1) or more of the animals is a Service
Animal, or Other Support or Therapy Animal, as defined in this Chapter, and the
animal(s) will be in use at said premises in this special capacity and the
person(s) utilizing the animal(s) reside(s) on the premises. (Ord. 122, 12-23-
1981; amd. Ord. 160, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-7: NONCOMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL KENNEL LICENSES:
   A.   License Requirements: All kennels, commercial or noncommercial, must be
licensed. Applications are to be addressed to the Animal Control Agency. The
application shall state the name and address of the owner, the location of the
kennel or residence, and the number and type of dogs or cats to be kept. The
County fee for a kennel license shall be set by resolution of the Board of Ada
County Commissioners. An authorized officer of the Animal Control Agency shall
inspect all prospective kennels or multiple animal residences prior to granting
a kennel permit. The Animal Control Agency will ensure that the designated
number of animals and the housing and keeping of such animals will not likely
constitute a public nuisance, as defined in Section
5-7-3(C).
   B.   Any application for a kennel license must include:
      1.   Licensing for each dog that is subject to licensing under Section
5-7-5.
      2.   Written approval for a commercial kennel license, which shall be in
the form of an approved conditional use permit and a valid zoning certificate
issued pursuant to Title 8 of the Ada County Code.
   C.   Revocation of Kennel License:
      1.   A kennel license may be revoked or the application for kennel
license denied when any of the following conditions are found to exist:
         a.   Dogs or cats from the subject kennel are apprehended by an Animal
Control Officer for running At Large more than one (1) time in any six (6)
month period.
         b.   Failure of the kennel to maintain an accurate list of all the
animals kept at the kennel. The list shall be maintained as part of the records
of the kennel.
         c.   The kennel keeping more than the approved number of animals at
the kennel.
         d.   Failure of the kennel to allow access to an authorized Animal
Control Officer to inspect the kennel facility.
         e.   Failure to maintain the kennel in a clean and sanitary manner by
the kennel operator or its staff.
         f.   Failure by the kennel to provide the animals with adequate
shelter and protection from the weather.
         g.   Failure by the kennel to provide the animals with adequate
ventilation.
         h.   The quartering together of temperamentally unsuited dogs or
allowing the animals to be in proximity to one another which action causes the
dogs to be abused or tormented.
         i.   Excessive or loud animal noises at the kennel.
         j.   Failure to adequately treat any diseased or injured dog or
failure to segregate a diseased dog necessary to preventing the spread of
disease to other animals.
         k.   Conviction on an animal nuisance or cruelty charge, or failure to
abate a condition determined by the Animal Control Agency to contribute to or
constitute a condition of public nuisance.
   D.   Upon notice of revocation served by the Animal Control Officer, a
kennel license holder shall have thirty (30) days to cure any noted defect. In
the alternative, the kennel license holder may, within thirty (30) days of the
notice, file a written protest to contest such revocation with the Board of Ada
County Commissioners.
   E.   If no protest has been timely filed, or if the noted defects have not
been timely cured, the kennel license shall be deemed revoked. (Ord. 945, 1-24-
2023)
5-7-8: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Dogs At Large: Notwithstanding the following subsections, it shall be
an infraction for any owner to allow a dog(s) to run At Large, as defined
above.
   B.   Impoundment: The Animal Control Agency may impound any dog found At
Large and there is no owner present, subject to redemption in the manner as
provided for in this Chapter. It shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or cause
injury to a dog At Large, except as provided for elsewhere in this Chapter.
   C.   Collar and Tag Required: Every dog shall wear a substantial, durable
collar or harness at all times, to which the required license tag shall be
securely attached.
   D.   Training and Exercise Grounds: The Board of Ada County Commissioners
may designate public grounds for the training or exercise of dogs, subject to
certain rules and regulations. Dogs exercising in these areas need not be
controlled by leash, provided they are under the control of a responsible
person through whistle, voice, or other effective command.
   E.   Enclosure Requirements: Any owner who relies upon a fence, or other
enclosure, to contain a dog while it is out of doors must maintain the fence or
enclosure in a condition to prevent the dog from escaping and running At Large.
In the event a dog escapes and is found At Large, or injures or attacks another
animal or person through a defective fence, the Animal Control Agency may
investigate and document the condition of the fence or enclosure where the
owner regularly keeps the dog. If the fence is found to be defective or
damaged, the owner shall repair the identified damage, deficiencies, or defects
in the fence. If the owner fails to repair the identified damage, deficiencies,
or defects, and the dog is again found running At Large, the owner may be cited
under this provision for failure to repair the fence to prevent a dog from
running At Large in addition to a citation for the dog running At Large. (Ord.
945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-9: FOUND STRAY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take into their possession a stray
animal without immediately notifying the Animal Control Agency. The animal
shall be released to the Animal Control Agency or an Animal Control Officer
upon demand by that Agency's representative without charge. This shall not
apply to a person who captures a free roaming At Large domestic cat, transports
the cat to a veterinarian for sterilization surgery, and releases the cat in
the approximate location where it was found for the purpose of cat population
control. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-10: RABIES CONTROL, QUARANTINE:
   A.   Rabies Vaccination Requirements:
      1.   Vaccination Required: The owner or custodian of any dog or cat
within the County shall vaccinate such animal against rabies within thirty (30)
days of:
         a.   The dog or cat becoming four (4) months of age;
         b.    Acquiring a dog or cat without documented proof of current
rabies vaccination; or
         c.   Bringing a dog or cat four (4) months of age or older into the
County's limits.
      2.   Revaccination Intervals: The owner or custodian of any dog or cat
within the County that has been vaccinated against rabies is required to
revaccinate such animal within a period of not more than:
         a.   Twelve (12) months after the animal's initial vaccination, if the
animal was between four (4) months and one (1) year of age at the time of such
vaccination; and
         b.   Thirty-six (36) months after each subsequent vaccination.
      3.    Rabies Vaccination Waiver: Upon physical examination of a dog or
cat, an Idaho licensed veterinarian may provide a written waiver from rabies
vaccination based on an illness or infirmity in such animal, or based on a
positive rabies antibody btained by laboratory testing. A written waiver must
provide an expiration date, not to exceed twelve (12) months. Upon expiration,
the animal must be vaccinated, or it must be physically reexamined by an Idaho
licensed veterinarian, who may issue a new written waiver from rabies
vaccination following the same guidelines set forth herein.
      4.    Approved Vaccination: Only U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)
approved rabies vaccinations may be administered to dogs and cats within the
County.
      5.   Certificate of Vaccination: An Idaho licensed veterinarian who
vaccinates a dog or cat against rabies within the County, must immediately
issue a certificate of vaccination signed by the veterinarian to such animal's
owner or custodian. The certificate of rabies vaccination shall provide the
following information:
         a.   The date of the vaccination;
         b.   The name and address of the vaccinated animal's owner or
custodian;
         c.   The type of vaccine used, the vaccine manufacturer's name, and
the vaccine's serial or lot number; and
         d.   The breed, age, color, sex, and name of the vaccinated dog or
cat.
      6.   Maintaining Vaccination Records: The owner or custodian of a dog or
cat shall maintain copies of the certificates of rabies vaccinations for the
animal and shall produce such records upon request by:
         a.   An Animal Control Officer;
         b.   A person who was injured by and potentially exposed to rabies by
such animal;
         c.   A licensed physician who is currently treating a person who was
injured by and potentially exposed to rabies by such animal; or
         d.   A veterinarian who is currently treating an animal that was
injured by and potentially exposed to rabies by such animal.
   B.   Duty to Report and Confine Suspected Rabid Animals: It shall be
unlawful for an owner or person having charge, custody or control of any
animal, who learns or observes the animal act in a manner that would lead a
reasonable person to suspect the animal is infected with rabies:
      1.   To fail, refuse, or neglect to immediately notify the Animal Control
Agency;
      2.   To fail to securely confine such animal as directed by the Animal
Control Agency;
      3.   To fail, refuse, or neglect to allow a licensed veterinarian to
inspect or examine such animal for symptoms of rabies.
   C.   Quarantine of Biting Animals; Suspected Rabies - Procedures:
      1.   An owner or custodian of any animal who learns of or observes such
animal exhibiting rabies symptoms or observes the animal act in a manner that
would lead a reasonable person to suspect the animal is infected with rabies,
shall surrender the animal for quarantine to an animal shelter or licensed
veterinarian.
      2.   An owner or custodian of any animal that has bitten a human in which
the skin was broken shall surrender such animal for quarantined confinement to
an animal shelter or a licensed veterinarian.
      3.   An owner or custodian of any animal which comes into contact with a
known rabid or suspected rabid animal shall be quarantined in a place and
manner, and for a period of time, designated by the Director of the Animal
Control Agency.
      4.   Quarantine Period: Any animal quarantined for biting or under
suspicion of rabies infection shall be confined and observed by a licensed
veterinarian for a period of no less than ten (10) days and not more than
fifteen (15) days from the date the bite was inflicted.
      5.   Alternative Quarantine Procedure: At the discretion of the Director
of the Animal Control Agency, the quarantine of an animal may be conducted at a
licensed boarding kennel or upon the premises of the owner or custodian of the
animal. During the period of quarantine, the animal must be securely confined
and isolated from contact with humans and other animals. Within forty-eight
(48) hours of the conclusion of the quarantine period, and at the owner's or
custodian's expense, the owner or custodian shall have the animal examined by a
licensed veterinarian, the Animal Control Agency, or an Animal Control Officer
to determine whether the animal exhibits any symptoms of rabies or has died. In
the case of a veterinary examination, the owner or custodian shall submit a
true and accurate copy of the veterinarian's examination record to the Animal
Control Agency. If the animal dies while in alternative quarantine, the
animal's owner or custodian shall immediately notify the Animal Control Agency
and surrender the carcass for testing if requested by the Animal Control
Agency.
      6.   Surrender for Destruction of Rabid Animals: The owner or custodian
of an animal that is determined to be rabid shall surrender the infected animal
to the Animal Control Agency, if not already in possession of the Animal
Control Agency. The animal's diagnosis shall be confirmed. If the animal is
found to be rabid then the animal shall be euthanized by the Animal Control
Agency after the owner is notified.
      7.   Impoundment; Fees and Costs; and Disposal of Quarantined Animal: Any
animal exhibiting rabies symptoms may be impounded for quarantine, and the
animal's owner shall be liable for all related fees and costs as set forth in
this Chapter. Impounded animals for quarantine are subject to disposal by the
Animal Control Agency as set forth in this Chapter.
   D.   Contagious Diseased Animals At Large: It shall be unlawful for any
person to permit or allow any animal with a contagious or infectious disease to
run At Large upon the public streets, or to be within and upon any public
transportation facility, or any other public building or place within the
County, or to expose such animal in any public building or place, whereby the
health, safety and wellbeing of the public, or any member or members thereof,
may be affected; nor shall such animal be shipped or removed from the premises
of the owner of such animal, except under the supervision of the Animal Control
Agency. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-11: ANIMALS PRESENTING AN IMMEDIATE DANGER:
   A.   If an animal:
      1.   Presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of a person;
      2.   Is threatening a person; or
      3.   Is harming a person;
Then the animal may be restrained by whatever humane means necessary and even
destroyed if absolutely necessary to prevent injury to the victim.
Alternatively, a law enforcement officer, the Animal Control Officer or Animal
Control Agency may, if practical, apprehend the animal and impound it.
   B.   Any owner of an animal presenting an immediate danger without
provocation, as described above, in addition to any other penalties as provided
in this Chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-12: DIRECTING A DOG TO HARASS OR ATTACK:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in possession of any animal to
direct, encourage, cause, allow, or otherwise aid or assist a dog to threaten,
charge, bite, harass, menace, or attack a person or other animal within the
County. The directed animal may be seized and impounded. This Section shall not
apply to an attack by a dog under the control of a law enforcement officer or
resultant from an attack upon an uninvited intruder who enters the owner's
property with a criminal intent. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023).
5-7-13: CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR DOG BITES AND ATTACKS:
   A.   An owner or person in possession of a dog that bites or attacks a
Companion Animal, or bites or attacks a human being without causing serious
injury and without justified provocation as provided in this Chapter, is guilty
of an infraction, and shall be punished by a fine of $150 upon conviction.
Further, as consequence of the owner or person in possession pleading guilty or
being found guilty of an infraction under this subsection, the dog which bit or
attacked shall be deemed an At-Risk Dog, provided the animal is found to meet
the definition as provided in this Chapter, and that justified provocation was
not a factor in the incident. The provisions of Section
5-7-19 applicable to keeping at-risk dogs shall apply to that dog.
      1.   If, within twelve (12) months from the date of a conviction under
this Section, a dog again attacks or bites a Companion Animal, or attacks or
bites a human being and without justified provocation, and without causing
serious injury, the owner, or person in possession, shall be guilty of
misdemeanor. Further, as a consequence of the owner or person in possession
pleading guilty or being found guilty of a misdemeanor under this subsection,
the dog which bit or attacked shall be deemed dangerous. The provisions of
Section
5-7-19 applicable to keeping dangerous dogs shall apply to that dog.
   B.   Any owner, or person in possession, of a dog that bites or attacks a
human being and causes serious injury and without justified provocation as
provided in this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Further, as a
consequence of the owner (or person in possession) pleading guilty or being
found guilty of a misdemeanor under this subsection, the dog which bit or
attacked shall be deemed a Dangerous Dog provided the animal is found to meet
the definition of dangerous dog as provided in this Chapter, and that justified
provocation was not a factor in the incident. The provisions of
5-7-19 applicable to keeping a Dangerous Dog shall apply. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-14: HABITUAL BARKING OR NOISEMAKING; NUISANCE:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for a person to fail to exercise
proper care and control of their animal. To prevent it from becoming a public
nuisance, as the term public nuisance is defined in Chapter 1, Title 52, of the
Idaho Code, a person shall be subject to criminal liability and guilty of a
misdemeanor for allowing an animal to become a public nuisance when such person
permits or allows an animal to:
      1.   Bark, bay, cry, howl, or emit any excessive animal noise audible
beyond the boundaries of the property on which the animal is situated for an
extended period of time, day or night, thereby unreasonably disturbing another
person. For purposes of this Section "extended period of time" means either:
         a.   Barking, baying, crying, howling, or other animal noise emitted
by one or more animals incessantly for thirty (30) minutes, with no individual
period of silence of more than one (1) minute during the thirty (30) minute
period; or
         b.   Barking, baying, crying, howling or other animal noise emitted by
one or more animals intermittently for a total of sixty (60) minutes or more
within a twenty-four (24) hour period.
   B.   Exceptions: This Section shall not apply to animals that are being
harassed or provoked by a person to cause such noise, that are maintained on
land zoned for agricultural purposes, are kept at a properly permitted animal
shelter established for the care and placement of unwanted or stray animals, or
are kept at a properly zoned commercial boarding kennel.
   C.   Proof of Excessive Noise Nuisance: The owner or custodian of an animal
may be charged with excessive animal noise nuisance when an Animal Control
Officer:
      1.   Receives signed complaints alleging an animal noise nuisance from at
least two (2) unrelated adult witnesses residing in different residences;
      2.   Receives a signed complaint alleging an animal noise nuisance from
one adult witness who has an audio or video recording of the alleged violation;
      3.   Receives a signed complaint alleging an animal noise nuisance from
one (1) adult witness and the Animal Control Officer also personally observes
noise emission consistent with the complainant's allegations, even if the noise
emission witnessed by the officer is for less than the required amount of time
under this ordinance; or
      4.   Personally witnesses the excessive noise violation for the required
period of time under this ordinance.
   D.   Other Animal Nuisances: Another animal nuisance may occur when:
      1.   An animal threatens, or acts aggressively towards, passersby;
      2.   An animal chases vehicles, individuals on bicycles, scooters or
similar devices, or pedestrians;
      3.   An animal attacks other animals;
      4.   An animal trespasses upon public or private property in such a
manner as to damage the property;
      5.   An excessive amount of animal feces is permitted to accumulate in
such a manner as to present a health risk to a person or which is of such
quantity as to generate odors off the premises of the animal owner; or
      6.   An owner fails to confine a female dog during estrus or proestrus in
a building or secure enclosure in such manner that such female dog cannot come
into contact with male dogs, except for planned breeding.
   E.   Nuisance Feral Cat Prevention: Any cat not spayed or neutered that is
permitted to be out of doors not under the direct control of its owner is
deemed a nuisance. The Animal Control Agency may seize any cat At Large and may
spay or neuter such animal. The Animal Control Agency may mark the cat as being
spayed or neutered by marking the animal's ear, or through some other
methodology. A cat that is seized pursuant this Section, spayed or neutered,
and marked as such, may be released by the Animal Control Agency to the
location from which it was seized. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-15: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; ANIMAL SHELTER:
   A.   Animal Control Agency:
      1.   Appointment of Animal Control Agency: The Board of Ada County
Commissioners is authorized to appoint an Animal Control Agency to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Duty of Animal Control Agency, Shelter and its Officers or Assigns:
The Animal Control Agency is authorized to enforce the provisions of this
Chapter and is designated as a peace officer for this purpose. The Animal
Control Agency is authorized to make necessary animal seizures. The Animal
Control Agency may remove and keep any animal in violation of the provisions of
this Chapter. The Animal Control Agency shall issue a notice of ordinance
violation to enforce provisions of this Section. The notice of ordinance
violation may be signed by any person witnessing a violation as well as the
witnessing Animal Control Officer whose name shall be affixed on the notice of
ordinance violation.
   B.   Designation of Animal Control Shelter: The Board of Ada County
Commissioners shall designate an official Animal Control Shelter where animals
found in violation of this Chapter shall be taken. (Ord. 122, 12-23-1981; amd.
Ord. 160, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 801, 9-12-2012; amd. Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-16: OBSTRUCTING ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   No person shall obstruct, delay, hinder, hide, conceal, or interfere
with any person authorized by the Board of Ada County Commissioners to
discharge their duties under this Section. The following acts are considered
obstructing or interfering with an Animal Control Officer's duties:
      1.   Removing an animal from the animal control shelter or from the
custody of an Animal Control Officer without the authority of the Animal
Control Agency.
      2.   Removing an animal from the animal control shelter without paying
the designated fees.
      3.   Threatening or obstructing an Animal Control Officer acting in their
official powers or duties.
      4.   Committing an act that interferes with or obstructs an Animal
Control Officer acting in the discharge of their duties.
      5.   It is unlawful to make a false or misleading statement or
representation about animal ownership or custody to an Animal Control Agency,
shelter or officer.
   B.   An Animal Control Officer in the course of their duties has an
obligation to identify who they are to those requesting that information and
provide a current work address and, if necessary, sign an acknowledgement of
receipt of infraction or misdemeanor.
   C.   Any person violating this Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-17: IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS:
   A.   An Animal Control Officer may impound an animal if they have probable
cause to believe a violation of any provision of this Chapter has occurred and
for which an animal may be impounded. The notice and terms of impoundment,
redemption, and disposal of such animal are set forth in this Section.
   B.   Record of Impounding: At time of animal impoundment the Animal Control
Agency shall record the date of impounding, a description of the animal
impounded, the reason behind the impoundment and an assessment of its identity
if that can be determined.
   C.   Identified Animals: Within twenty-four (24) hours after impoundment of
an identified animal, the Animal Control Agency shall make all reasonable
efforts to notify the owner of the animal's impoundment.
   D.   Redeeming Animals:
      1.   Animals brought to the animal control shelter shall be provided
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort. They shall be
held by the Animal Control Shelter for a period of time, as determined by the
impounding agency, unless they are subject to other provisions of this Section.
      2.   This Section does not apply to animals that are sick or injured to
the extent that their impoundment will prolong their suffering and a better
course of action would be to humanely euthanize the animal in the opinion of a
licensed veterinarian.
      3.   The owner of any animal that is lawfully impounded shall be
responsible for and pay all fees and expenses related to the impoundment
whether or not the animal is later claimed.
      4.   The following protocol is required to reclaim an animal, unless
otherwise noted:
         a.   Execution of a sworn statement of current ownership.
         b.   Proof of current license (if required) in the circumstance the
animal is untagged, or purchase of a license and tag.
         c.   Payment of the impoundment fees.
         d.   Payment of the boarding fee according to the boarding schedule.
         e.   Payment of any veterinary and hospital expenses incurred during
the animal's impoundment.
   E.   Refusal to Redeem Impounded Animal; Adoption; Appeal: The animal may
not be redeemed by the owner, if, in the judgment of a licensed veterinarian or
an agent of the Animal Control Agency, an animal should not be returned to the
owner for humane or public health reasons. The owner shall be provided written
notice of this decision, and the owner shall be permitted to appeal this
decision to the director as an affected person. After completion of an appeal,
or after the time for filing an appeal has passed, the Animal Control Agency
may either: (1) find a responsible person to adopt the animal; or (2) euthanize
the animal.
   F.   Impoundment fee: The Animal Control Shelter shall charge a fee, set by
resolution of the Board of Ada County Commissioners for receiving an animal
into custody. This fee shall be paid at time of animal redemption and these
fees shall be remitted to Ada County.
      1.   Fee Schedule:
 
Dog:
 Tagged, neutered or spayed                                        $15.00
 Untagged, neutered or spayed                                      $40.00
 Tagged, unaltered                                                 $65.00
 Untagged, unaltered                                               $90.00
Cat                                                                 $12.50
Horse, mule, hog, sheep, goat, cattle, or other domesticated animal $125.00
 
   G.   Boarding Fees: The Animal Control Shelter shall be entitled to charge a
boarding fee for the keeping and selling of an animal and these fees shall be
retained by the Animal Control Shelter.
   H.   Annual Report of Fees: The charges associated with the keeping and
selling of an animal shall be determined by the Animal Control Shelter. The
fees charged by the Animal Control Shelter for boarding and keeping any animal
shall be paid at time of animal redemption along with any veterinary and
hospital expenses incurred during the animal's impoundment. The Animal Control
Shelter is obligated to keep a fee schedule for services rendered available for
public inspection and advise the Board of County Commissioners annually the
fees it charges for its services. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-18: HABITUAL VIOLATOR:
   A.   Notice of Abatement; Appeal: In addition to any legal remedy available
under the provisions of this Chapter, the Animal Control Agency may notify and
direct, in writing, an owner who is guilty of three (3) convictions of a
violation of this Chapter in any twelve (12) month period to abate and remove
the animal(s) causing the violations from the County within five (5) calendar
days from the date of the notice; or, in the alternative, to abate and transfer
ownership and possession of the animal to another person not living at the same
place of residence.
   B.   Request Hearing Before District Court: The owner of an animal that has
been served with an order of abatement, pursuant to subsection A. of this
Section, may appeal such order by requesting a hearing before the district
court by submitting a written request to the clerk of the court. Any appeal
must be filed within five (5) calendar days following service of the notice.
   C.   Failure to Abate; Impoundment of Animal: If the owner of the animal is
found in violation of the abatement notice and has failed to timely appeal the
notice or lost their appeal, the animal shall be removed and impounded by the
Animal Control Agency, subject to all impoundment procedures; provided,
however, the animal may not be returned to the same residence or property from
where it formerly resided or was impounded. The owner of the animal shall be
responsible for the fees incurred as a result of the seizure and impoundment of
the animal. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-19: DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT OF DANGEROUS OR AT-RISK DOGS:
   A.   Purpose.
      1.   Dangerous and At-Risk dogs found within the boundaries of Ada County
present a risk to the health, safety, and welfare of persons and other animals.
The purpose of this Section is to provide policies and procedures for the safe
management of Dangerous and At-Risk dogs to promote the public health, safety,
and welfare, while also promoting the humane and ethical treatment of animals.
   B.   Procedure for Designating a Dog as Dangerous or At-Risk.
      1.   If an Animal Control Officer has probable cause to believe a dog is
Dangerous or At-Risk, as those terms are defined in this Chapter, the Officer
shall have authority to designate the dog as Dangerous or At-Risk and shall
serve a written Notice of Designation on the owner of the dog. An Animal
Control Officer shall have authority to designate an animal regardless of
whether or not an owner has been charged with a crime related to an unprovoked
animal attack. The Notice of Designation shall:
         a.   Be personally served on the owner by an Animal Control Officer or
other authorized person.
         b.   Identify whether the dog is being designated as Dangerous or At-
Risk;
         c.   Identify the date on which the officer determined the dog to be
Dangerous or At-Risk;
         d.   Provide a description of the factual circumstances and events
that support the officer's decision to designate the dog as Dangerous or At-
Risk;
         e.   Provide a clear description of the dog such that it can be
identified, a photograph of the dog is encouraged;
         f.   Provide notice that the owner may petition the Animal Control
Agency to review the Officer's decision to designate the animal as Dangerous or
At-Risk;
         g.   Provide notice that the Officer's designation decision shall
become final after ten (10) business days if the owner fails to petition the
Animal Control Agency to review the Notice of Designation;
         h.   Provide notice that owners of a dog designated as At-Risk or
Dangerous may either keep the dog in their possession and be subject to the
restrictions the Animal Control Agency puts in place for the keeping of such
dogs, or may voluntarily relinquish custody of the dog to the Animal Control
Agency; and
         i.   Provide notice that the final disposition of a dog voluntarily
relinquished to, or seized by, the Animal Control Agency pursuant to this
Section may be adoption or euthanasia, and this decision shall be in the sole
discretion of the Animal Control Agency.
      2.   No dog may be designated as Dangerous or At-Risk when, at the time
an injury or damage was sustained, the precipitating cause constituted
justified provocation.
      3.   An Animal Control Officer has the authority to seize and impound a
dog that has been determined, by an Animal Control Officer, to be:
         a.   Dangerous; or
         b.   Present an ongoing risk.
      4.   When an Animal Control Officer designates a dog as At-Risk the
Animal Control Officer shall have authority, but is not required, to seize and
impound the dog. Where the officer chooses to leave the dog in the owner's
custody and care, based upon the owner's express willingness to comply with
requirements and restrictions for keeping such dogs, the Officer shall provide
notice to the owner of the requirements and restrictions for keeping At-Risk
dogs as provided in this Section.
      5.   If an owner chooses to petition the Animal Control Agency to review
the Officer's designation decision, the owner shall be responsible for any fees
associated with boarding and caring for the animal during the time the petition
and any additional proceedings are pending, as well as any fees associated with
processing and considering the petition.
   C.   Any owner that receives a Notice of Designation shall be permitted to
appeal that designation as an affected person as provided in this Chapter.
   D.   Keeping Dangerous Dogs: The owner of a dog designated as Dangerous, or
a new adoptive owner of a dog designated as Dangerous prior to being adopted,
shall be subject to the following restrictions for the keeping of such dog
within the boundaries of Ada County:
      1.   The dog shall be licensed pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter.
      2.   The owner shall be required to have a microchip implanted in the dog
that allows for identification of the animal and the owner shall be required to
report the microchip number to the Animal Control Agency.
      3.   The owner shall be required to procure and maintain liability
insurance of not less than one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) in the
case of a dog that is designated as Dangerous based on an attack or injury
inflicted on any person, or twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) in the case of a
dog that is designated as Dangerous based solely on attacks or injuries
inflicted on animals but not people, that covers any damage or injury that may
be caused by such Dangerous dog; the County shall be named as an additional
insured on this policy for the purpose that the County Clerk, or other
licensing authority, will be notified by the insurance company if the policy is
cancelled, terminated, or otherwise expires.
      4.   The dog shall be contained within an enclosure on the owner's
property; this enclosure may be a fence, kennel, or other adequate means of
containing the animal to the owner's property. The Animal Control Agency shall
be permitted to inspect such enclosure, and if the enclosure is found to be
defective or inadequate by the Agency the owner shall not be permitted to keep
the dog until the enclosure improved as requested by the Animal Control Agency.
Failure to improve the enclosure shall result in the inability of the owner to
keep the Dangerous Fog.
      5.   The owner shall be required to post signs on their property that
announce to other persons that there is a Dangerous Dog on the property. Such
signs must be placed at any potential entrance point to the yard or home (such
as at gates, doors, and on the enclosure where the dog is kept), and must
include words indicating the presence of a "dangerous" dog. A sign merely
stating "Beware of Dog," without also identifying the dog to be "dangerous,"
"vicious" or some substantially similar word indicating the dog's propensity
for aggression shall be insufficient.
      6.   In the event the owner takes the dog off their property, the dog
shall be on a leash no greater than three (3) feet in length, and the dog shall
also be required to wear a muzzle. The leash must be of adequate strength to
restrain the dog, and the person holding the leash must be physically capable
of restraining and controlling the dog; the dog must not be allowed to be off
leash within Ada County including any areas designated as off leash areas, the
dog shall not be kept at dog care facilities where dogs are kept in group off
leash housing. The owner or custodian of the dog shall ensure that the dog is
not allowed to have physical contact with any other dog or person other than
the keeper, custodian or immediate family of the owner when off the property of
the owner.
      7.   The owner shall be required to spay or neuter the dog.
      8.   The owner shall be obligated to schedule and obtain annual
inspections of the dog by the Animal Control Agency.
   E.   Keeping At-Risk Dogs: The owner of a dog designated as At-Risk, or a
new adoptive owner of a dog designated as At-Risk prior to being adopted, shall
be subject to the following restrictions for the keeping of such dog within the
boundaries of Ada County:
      1.   The dog shall be licensed pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter;
      2.   The owner shall be required to have a microchip implanted in the dog
that allows for identification of the animal and the owner shall be required to
report the microchip number to the Animal Control Agency;
      3.   The dog shall be contained within an enclosure on the owner's
property; this enclosure may be a fence, kennel, or other adequate means of
containing the animal to the owner's property. The Animal Control Agency shall
be permitted to inspect such enclosure, and if the enclosure is found to be
defective or inadequate by the Agency the owner shall not be permitted to keep
the dog until the enclosure improved as requested by the Animal Control Agency.
Therefore, the dog may be impounded until the enclosure is repaired or
improved. Failure to improve the enclosure shall result in the inability of the
owner to keep the At-Risk dog;
      4.   In the event the owner takes the dog off their property, the dog
shall be on a leash no greater than six (6) feet in length. Further the leash
must be of adequate strength to restrain the dog, and the person holding the
leash must be physically capable of restraining and controlling the dog; the
dog must not be allowed to be off leash within County limits including any
areas designated as off leash areas, the dog shall not be kept at dog care
facilities where dogs are kept in group off leash housing. The owner or
custodian of the dog shall ensure that the dog is not allowed to have physical
contact with any other dog or person other than the keeper, custodian or
immediate family of the owner when off the property of the owner.
   F.   In addition to any criminal penalties, failure to comply with any of
the restrictions in Section (D) or (E) above may result in the dog being
immediately seized and impounded. An owner is permitted to redeem the animal
from impound so long as the owner comes into compliance with the provisions of
Section (D) or (E), whichever is applicable, within ten (10) days of the dog
being seized. If the owner fails to come into compliance with the provisions of
the applicable Section (D) or (E), the Animal Control Agency may place the dog
up for adoption or euthanize the dog, provided the Agency complies with the
adoption or euthanasia guidelines provided for elsewhere in this Chapter.
   G.   Transfer of At-Risk or Dangerous Dogs: If an owner of an At-Risk or
Dangerous dog transfers ownership of the dog to another person, they shall be
obligated to notify the new owner of the designation. Further, they shall be
obligated to notify the Animal Control Agency of the transfer of ownership of
the animal, and provide to the Animal Control Agency the name, physical
address, and telephone number of the new owner of the dog. The new owner shall
be obligated to comply with the requirements set forth in this Section for
keeping At-Risk or Dangerous dogs.
   H.   Disposition of Dogs Designated as Dangerous or At-risk.
      1.   In the event a dog designated as Dangerous again, while unprovoked,
attacks a person, such dog shall be subject to immediate impounding by the
Animal Control Agency and shall be humanely euthanized as expeditiously as
reasonably possible. Such second attack need not cause serious injury for this
provision to apply.
      2.   As proscribed elsewhere in this Chapter, Dangerous or At-Risk dogs
may be impounded under various circumstances. Where such dogs are voluntarily
relinquished by the owner, or where the owner cannot or will not redeem the dog
from impound, the Animal Control Agency shall be permitted to place the dog for
adoption if, in the Agency's judgment, the dog can be safely adopted to a new
home. Where the Agency concludes the dog cannot be safely adopted, the Agency
shall humanely euthanize such animal.
      3.   If the Animal Control Agency chooses to place for adoption a dog
currently or previously designated as Dangerous or At-Risk to a new home, the
Animal Control Agency shall provide written notice to the person(s) adopting
the dog of its current or previous designation. Prior to approving the
adoption, the Agency shall obtain a written signed waiver from the adopting
person(s) indicating they are aware of the dog's designation, and will not hold
the County liable for incidents that may arise related to the dog's behavior.
Further, where the designation is currently in place and not expired or
vacated, the Animal Control Agency shall notify the person(s) adopting the
animal of the restrictions placed on an owner of such animal provided for in
Ada County Code Section 5-7-19(D) and (E), and the owner shall be obligated to
comply with these restrictions.
      4.   The Animal Control Agency, in its sole discretion, shall be
authorized to deny a request to adopt a Dangerous or At-Risk dog. The Animal
Control Agency shall be particularly sensitive to the potential risks
associated with adopting the animal to a home with small children or other
vulnerable individuals, and only approve such adoptions in rare circumstances.
The Agency's decision to deny an adoption request under this provision is not
subject to appeal.
      5.   The Animal Control Agency shall keep records of dogs designated as
Dangerous or At-Risk. The records kept shall at a minimum contain information
identifying the dog (including name, breed, color and markings description,
microchip number, and gender), the date of the Notice of Designation, and the
name and contact information for the current owner of such dog.
   I.   Expiration or Cancellation of At-Risk Designation.
      1.   The designation as an At-Risk dog shall expire twenty-four (24)
months after the Notice of Designation is served on the current or previous
owner, provided the dog has not acted in a manner or committed an act during
that twenty-four (24) month period that would constitute grounds to again
designate the dog as At-Risk.
      2.   An owner of an At-Risk dog may petition the Animal Control Agency
earlier than twenty-four (24) months to cancel the designation as At-Risk. The
petition shall set out factual or legal circumstances that would warrant the
cancellation of the designation. The Agency receiving such a petition shall
investigate the circumstances asserted by the owner, and provide a written
decision to the owner either granting or denying the petition. An owner may
file more than one petition under this provision, provided no owner shall bring
more than one such petition during any twelve (12) month period of time. The
owner bringing such petition shall be responsible for all fees and costs
incurred by the County or Animal Control Agency in processing said petition.
   J.   The owner of a dog impounded under any provision of this Section shall
be liable to the Animal Control Agency for costs associated with boarding and
caring for the animal until the animal redeemed from impound, adopted, or
euthanized, except where the animal was voluntary relinquished to the Animal
Control Agency.
   K.   An owner of a dog who violates any provision of Ada County Code Section
5-7-19 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided
herein. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-20: APPEAL PROCEDURE FOR AFFECTED PERSONS:
If an Animal Control Officer determines a dog to be At-Risk or Dangerous, the
Animal Control Officer or Agency shall notify the dog owner of the
determination. The results of the investigation will be reported to the Animal
Control Agency and to the dog owner. The dog owner has the option of filing an
appeal with the district court. Such appeal shall be within ten (10) days of
the designation as an At-Risk or Dangerous dog. Depending on the circumstances,
the dog may be impounded pending disposition of the case. The hearing
procedures shall be governed by the Idaho Rules of Civil Procedure with the
burden of proof on the owner of the dog to show the dog should not be
classified as Dangerous or At-Risk.
   A.   Destruction of Dangerous Dog:
      1.   If the court finds the dog is Dangerous, then the court may order
the Owner to comply with restrictions set out by the Animal Control Agency, or
such dog shall be subject to destruction by the Animal Control Agency. Upon
request of the owner, the dog's remains shall be provided to the owner within
five (5) days of destruction.
      2.   If the court finds that the dog is not At-Risk or Dangerous as
defined in this Chapter, such dog may be released to the custody of the owner
upon payment of any outstanding impoundment fees. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-21: DENYING OWNERSHIP:
It shall be a misdemeanor for an owner of an animal to deny ownership of that
animal. (Ord. 945, 1-24-2023)
5-7-22: PENALTIES:
Except where specifically provided otherwise within this Chapter, any person
violating any of the provisions of this Chapter for which a fixed fine has not
been designated shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished with a fine as provided by Idaho Code Section 18-113
as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled, or by imprisonment for
not more than thirty (30) days, or by both said fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
945, 1-24-2023)
CHAPTER 8
NOXIOUS WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
5-8-1: Short Title
5-8-2: Authority And Purpose
5-8-3: Noxious Weeds Declared Unlawful
5-8-4: Landowner And Citizen Duties
5-8-5: Definitions
5-8-6: Enforcement Procedure
5-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter is entitled NOXIOUS WEED CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 741, 1-19-2010)
5-8-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by article 12, section
2, Idaho constitution, and sections 31-714, 31-801, 22-2405, 22-2409, Idaho
Code, as may be amended or retitled from time to time. Its purpose is to
provide procedures for abating noxious weeds, which can create environmental
damage and other problems having a harmful effect upon the health and welfare
of the public. (Ord. 741, 1-19-2010)
5-8-3: NOXIOUS WEEDS DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any landowner to knowingly maintain noxious weeds on their
land or property within Ada County. (Ord. 741, 1-19-2010)
5-8-4: LANDOWNER AND CITIZEN DUTIES:
Pursuant to section 22-2407, Idaho Code, as it may be amended or retitled from
time to time, it is the duty and responsibility of all landowners to control
noxious weeds on their land and property and to reimburse the county control
authority for control work performed because of failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 741, 1-19-2010)
5-8-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
words or phrases not defined in this chapter should be given their ordinary,
commonly understood and accepted meanings.
CONTROL: Any or all of the following: prevention, rehabilitation, eradication
or modified treatments of noxious weeds.
COUNTY: Ada County, Idaho.
COUNTY CONTROL AUTHORITY: The board of Ada County commissioners.
COUNTY WEED SUPERINTENDENT: Person so employed by the board of Ada County
commissioners to detect and treat noxious weeds, or his/her employee(s) charged
with a duty to detect and/or treat noxious weeds.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Idaho department of agriculture or the director's
designated agent.
LANDOWNER: Landowners include the person holding legal title to the property
and persons with an interest in the property such that the person has the right
to exclude others from possession of the property.
NOXIOUS WEED: Any plant having the potential to cause injury to public health,
crops, livestock, land or other property; and which is designated as noxious by
the director. (Ord. 741, 1-19-2010)
5-8-6: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   When noxious weeds are found within county:
      1.   A general notice for control of noxious weeds shall be published
between March 1 and April 30 in a newspaper of general circulation within the
county. The notice shall contain the list of noxious weeds and identify those
known to be in the county, and shall state that it is the duty and
responsibility of all landowners to control noxious weeds on their land and
property. Failure to publish the notice for control or serve individual notices
herein provided does not relieve any person from full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. In all cases said published notice shall be deemed
legal and sufficient notice.
      2.   Whenever the county weed superintendent finds it necessary to secure
more prompt or definite control of noxious weeds than is accomplished by the
general notice, it may serve individual notices on the landowner and, where
possible, on the operator of the land, giving specific instructions when and
how certain named noxious weeds are to be controlled. The individual notice
shall also contain information concerning the potential for the assessment of a
civil penalty and the right to appeal the penalty assessment within two (2)
working days from the date of service of the notice, pursuant to sections 22-
2408 and 22-2409, Idaho Code, as may be amended or retitled from time to time.
Such service shall be by personal service or by certified mail directed to the
address of the landowner, as shown on the assessment rolls of the county,
occupant or person in charge of possession. Notice shall be deemed satisfied
after eight (8) days from the postmark of the certified mailing to the address
as shown on the assessment roll of the county. If service of the written notice
cannot be verified, additional notice may be posted to a building or other
place on the property so conspicuous that any person occupying, possessing or
using the property could reasonably be expected to see it. A posting of the
notice in this manner for a period of five (5) days shall constitute additional
service of the notice. Individual notices shall be applicable only to the
current growing season.
      3.   Whenever the landowner of any nonfederal land or nonfederally
administered land on which noxious weeds are present has neglected or failed to
initiate control as required, pursuant to this chapter, within five (5) working
days from the date an individual notice was served, pursuant to this section,
the county control authority may assess a civil penalty of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). Penalties shall be based on the noxious weed action
plan, duly adopted by the county control authority.
      4.   Failure to initiate control of the noxious weeds within five (5)
working days from receipt of the individual notice given pursuant to this
section further authorizes the county weed superintendent to have proper
control measures used on such land, including necessary destruction of crops.
The county weed superintendent shall advise the landowner of the cost incurred
in connection with such control measures. The cost of any such control measures
shall be at the expense of the landowner. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the
county weed superintendent from using proper control measures on noxious weeds,
in lieu of civil penalties, if the county weed superintendent deems such action
to be in the best interest of the public.
      5.   When the cost of proper control measures to control the noxious
weeds of a landowner is estimated to exceed one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00), the county weed superintendent may serve individual notice, as
provided in subsection A2 of this section, giving the landowner of any
nonfederal land or nonfederally administered land, specific instructions when
and how certain named noxious weeds are to be controlled. The individual notice
shall also contain information concerning the potential for the assessment of a
civil penalty and the right to appeal the penalty assessment within two (2)
working days from the date of service of the individual notice, pursuant to
sections 22-2408 and 22-2409, Idaho Code, as may be amended or retitled from
time to time. Whenever the landowner on which noxious weeds are present has
neglected or failed to initiate control as required, within five (5) working
days from the date an individual notice was served, pursuant to this section,
the county control authority may assess a civil penalty of twice the amount of
the estimated abatement control measures, not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Failure to initiate control of the noxious weeds within five (5)
working days from receipt of the individual notice given pursuant to this
section further authorizes the county weed superintendent to have proper
control measures used on such land, including necessary destruction of crops.
The county weed superintendent shall advise the landowner of the cost incurred
in connection with such control measures. The cost of any such control measures
shall be at the expense of the landowner. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the
county weed superintendent from using proper control measures on noxious weeds,
in lieu of civil penalties, if the county weed superintendent deems such action
to be in the best interest of the public.
      6.   If the weed control expenses and/or civil penalties have not been
paid to the county control authority within sixty (60) days of the expenses
billing and/or penalty assessment, the county control authority may direct that
suit be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction for the unpaid charges
and/or penalties. Pursuant to section 22-2405(4), Idaho Code, as it may be
amended or retitled from time to time, on private lands, if unpaid for sixty
(60) days or longer, the amount of such unpaid charges and/or penalties shall
become a lien upon the property; and thereafter the lien shall be subject to
collection by county by sale of the property in the same manner as for
delinquent taxes. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to
require satisfaction of the imposed obligation by the sale of property or to
bar the application of any other available remedy.
      7.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or who fails
or refuses to comply with any requirements herein specified, or who interferes
with the county control authority, its agents or employees, in the execution,
or on account of the execution of their duties under this chapter, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or be imprisoned in a county jail for not
more than six (6) months or be subject to both such fine and imprisonment.
      8.   No civil penalty may be assessed unless the person charged was given
notice and opportunity for a hearing pursuant to section 22-2409, Idaho Code,
as it may be amended or retitled from time to time.
      9.   Any person against whom the county control authority has assessed a
civil penalty under the provisions of this section may, within thirty (30) days
of the final action by the county control authority making the assessment,
appeal the assessment to the district court of Ada County.
      10.   All civil penalties collected pursuant to this chapter shall be
remitted to the Ada County noxious weed fund, from which disbursements shall be
made only for noxious weed control purposes.
      11.   It shall be a separate offense for each day that a noxious weed is
maintained, kept or allowed to exist. However, individual civil penalties
assessed shall not exceed a total of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Nothing
in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the county weed superintendent
to report minor violations when the county weed superintendent believes that
the public interest will be best served by suitable warnings or other
administrative action.
      12.   The county control authority, by and through the Ada County
prosecutor's office, may bring an action to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and the penalties provided herein. (Ord. 741, 1-19-2010)
CHAPTER 9
ADA COUNTY NUISANCE ORDINANCE
SECTION:
5-9-1: Short Title
5-9-2: Authority And Purpose
5-9-3: Public Nuisance Declared Unlawful
5-9-4: Definitions
5-9-5: Enforcement Procedure
5-9-6: Abatement And Penalties
5-9-7: Interference With Authorized Person
5-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter is entitled the ADA COUNTY NUISANCE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 236, 5-2-
1991, eff. 5-20-1991)
5-9-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by article 12, section
2, Idaho constitution, and sections 31-714, 31-801, Idaho Code. Its purpose is
to provide for and further the health, safety and welfare of the public by
providing a procedure for abating public nuisances which can create traffic
safety hazards, fire hazards, health hazards including those caused by rodent
infestation, and other problems which may have a harmful effect upon the
health, safety and welfare of the public. (Ord. 236, 5-2-1991, eff. 5-20-1991)
5-9-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to create, cause, maintain or knowingly allow to
exist a public nuisance on any premises or real property which the person owns,
rents, leases, occupies or has charge or possession of in unincorporated Ada
County except property zoned in a rural area district as established by section
8-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 236, 5-2-1991, eff. 5-20-1991)
5-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
words or phrases not defined in this chapter should be given their ordinary,
commonly understood and accepted meanings.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A condition or use of property which is harmful or injurious
to, or creates a danger of harm or injury to, the health, safety or welfare of
members of the public. The term "public nuisance" is further defined so as to
include, by way of example:
   A.   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a fire hazard
or any traffic or safety hazard to members of the public.
   B.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the growth of
weeds, grasses, bushes or other plant life to such a size (over 1 foot in
height) and/or in such a condition as to cause, or reasonably threaten to
cause, a fire hazard because of their dried and unkept condition, or a safety
hazard because they obstruct sight at intersections or other points at which
driveways, lanes or highways come together, or a health hazard because they
provide nesting areas for rodents, vermin and/or insects, or the growth of
weeds to such a size or in such condition as to interfere with the free and
comfortable use of adjacent and neighboring premises and property.
WEEDS: Undesirable and nonuseful plant growth.
An official public disposal site, landfill or existing transfer station
operated by Ada County or its franchisee shall not be a public nuisance. (Ord.
236, 5-2-1991, eff. 5-20-1991; amd. Ord. 259, 1-9-1993)
5-9-5: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   When a public nuisance is suspected within Ada County:
      1.   A written notice that a public nuisance exists shall be served upon
the owner, if known, and the occupant or person in charge of the possession of
the premises or property on which the nuisance is found. Such service shall be
by personal service or by certified mail directed to the last known address of
the owner, occupant or person in charge of possession. If written notice cannot
be served personally or by mail on the owner, occupant or person in charge of
the possession of the premises or property on which the nuisance is found, the
notice shall be posted by being affixed to a building or other place on the
premises or property so conspicuous that any person occupying, possessing or
using the premises or property can be reasonably expected to see it.
      2.   The written notice referred to in subsection A1 of this section
shall describe the nuisance, advise that the nuisance must be abated within
fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice, advise that civil proceedings
and/or criminal proceedings may be initiated if the nuisance is not abated,
advise that costs of court proceedings and the nuisance abatement may be
assessed against the owner, occupant or person in charge of the possession of
the premises or property. (Ord. 236, 5-2-1991, eff. 5-20-1991)
5-9-6: ABATEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   If the owner, occupant or person in charge or possession of the
premises or property on which the nuisance exists does not abate the nuisance
within the time allowed, they may be proceeded against either civilly or
criminally. The expenses of abatement and abatement proceedings (including any
expenses arising from contractors hired by the county to perform said abatement
and any investigatory costs) shall be charged to the owner, occupant or person
in charge or possession of the premises or property upon which the nuisance
exists. The prosecuting attorney may seek recovery of those expenses and costs.
Said costs shall attach as a lien upon the subject property if unpaid.
   B.   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by Idaho Code, section 18-113 as
it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled.
   C.   It shall be a separate offense for each day that a nuisance is
maintained, kept or allowed to exist. (Ord. 236, 5-2-1991, eff. 5-20-1991; amd.
Ord. 259, 1-9-1993; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
5-9-7: INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORIZED PERSON:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and shall be a misdemeanor to interfere with any
Ada County sheriff's deputy, Ada County health protection officer, Ada County
zoning department enforcement officer, Ada County weed control personnel, or
fire district personnel in the performance of their duties connected with
enforcement of this chapter. Such interference shall include, but not be
limited to, removal of notices posted on the property pursuant to this chapter
prior to the notices having been left in place for one hundred twenty (120)
hours.
   B.   A misdemeanor violation of this section shall be punished as provided
by Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or
retitled. (Ord. 236, 5-2-1991, eff. 5-20-1991; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 10
CLEAN AIR
SECTION:
5-10-1: Short Title
5-10-2: Authority And Purpose
5-10-3: Applicability
5-10-4: Definitions
5-10-5: Air Quality Designations And Alert Criteria
5-10-6: Public Notification
5-10-7: Burning Solid Fuel Or Refuse
5-10-8: Air Quality Alert/Additional Restrictions
5-10-9: Air Quality Alert Exemptions
5-10-10: Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Permits
5-10-11: Issuance Of Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Permits
5-10-12: Denial Of Permit
5-10-13: Denial Hearing And Determination By Board
5-10-14: Appeal Of Decision Of Board
5-10-15: Minimum Standards For Clean Burning Appliances
5-10-16: Applicability Of Chapter
5-10-17: Penalty
5-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY CLEAN AIR ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect air quality resources vital to the
public health, safety, and welfare of Ada County residents and the economic
future of Ada County by controlling emissions from solid fuel and refuse
burning. This chapter is promulgated under the authority of the Idaho
constitution, article 12, section 2, and Idaho Code sections 31-714 and 31-801.
(Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of unincorporated Ada County with the
following areas specifically excluded from this chapter:
   A.   All that area of Ada County lying to the south of the Boise base line.
The Boise Base Line being that line which runs from the southwest corner of
section thirty-one (31), township one (1) north, range one (1) west, east to
the southeast corner of section thirty-three (33), township one (1) north,
range four (4) east.
   B.   That area of southwest Ada County that lies south of Amity Road and
west of Cloverdale Road to the point where Cloverdale Road intersects the Boise
base line.
   C.   All areas of Ada County that are at three thousand five hundred feet
(3,500') above mean sea level.
A copy of a map showing the areas to be excluded from this chapter is available
from the clerk of the board of Ada County commissioners. (Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations all have the meanings given herein. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
AIR POLLUTION: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any contaminate or
combinations thereof in such quality or of such nature and duration and under
such conditions as would be injurious to human health or welfare, to plant or
animal life, or to property, or to interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of
life or property.
BUILDING: Any structure, dwelling, office, industrial plant, garage or barn,
whether publicly or privately owned or any other structure as defined by the
building code as adopted by title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
BURN DOWN: That period of time following an air pollution alert required for
the cessation of combustion within solid fuel heating appliances or any outdoor
fires or burning or incineration included within this Chapter.
CLEAN BURNING APPLIANCE: A solid fuel heating appliance that has been certified
as clean burning by either the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality or
the United States Environmental Protection Agency and has been placed on the
list of approved clean burning appliances maintained by Ada County Development
Services.
ECONOMIC HARDSHIP: Fifty percent (50%) or less of Ada County's median income as
established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
FIREPLACE: A residential solid fuel burning device with an air-to-fuel ratio of
greater than thirty (30) which is a permanent structural feature of a building.
A fireplace is made up of a concealed masonry or metal flue and a masonry or
metal firebox enclosed in decorative masonry or other building materials. A
residential solid fuel burning device which is freestanding or which is
installed into an existing "fireplace" opening is not included in the
definition of "fireplace".
HEAT OUTPUT: The British Thermal Unit (BTU)/hour output of a solid fuel heating
appliance measured under the testing criteria as adopted by the Ada County
Development Services Department.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any material not contained in a heating
appliance or incinerator.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Any gas-borne particles resulting from incomplete
combustion, consisting predominantly, but not exclusively, of carbon and other
combustible matter.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization or governmental entity.
REFUSE: All solid waste, garbage, and rubbish, including but not limited to
cardboard, plastic, rubber, styrofoam, petroleum products, food stuff,
Christmas trees, yard debris, or chemically treated wood.
REFUSE INCINERATOR: Any device designed or operated to reduce the volume of
refuse. Natural gas-fired pathological incinerators are excluded.
SOLE SOURCE: One or more solid fuel heating devices which constitute the only
source of heat in a building for the purpose of space heating. No solid fuel
heating device(s) shall be the sole source of heat if the building is equipped
with a permanently installed furnace or heating system designed to heat the
building that is connected or unconnected from its energy source, utilizing
oil, natural gas, electricity or propane.
SOLID FUEL: Any form of untreated wood or coal.
SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE: An enclosed device designed for solid fuel
combustion that meets all of the following criteria:
   A.   An air-to-fuel ratio averaging less than thirty five to one (35-to-1);
   B.   Firebox volume less than twenty (20) cubic feet;
   C.   Minimum burn rate less than five (5) kilograms per hour; and
   D.   Maximum weight of less than eight hundred (800) kilograms.
Explicitly excluded are furnaces, boilers, cook stoves, and open fireplaces.
WEIGHTED AVERAGE: The weighted average of the test results of the distribution
of the heating needs in Ada County as calculated by the building department of
Ada County. (Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-5: AIR QUALITY DESIGNATIONS AND ALERT CRITERIA:
   A.   The quality of Ada County's air shall be determined by monitoring
pollutant levels with equipment and methods approved by the Idaho state
department of environmental quality (DEQ).
   B.   In order to prevent the existence of air quality that is unhealthful,
an air pollution "alert" will be declared whenever the DEQ reports an air
quality index (AQI) of seventy four (74) or greater and forecasts air
stagnation conditions to continue for at least twenty four (24) hours. The
daily AQI may be determined by calling DEQ or visiting the DEQ web page. (Ord.
254, 11-3-1992; amd. Ord. 637, 9-26-2006)
5-10-6: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:
Whenever air pollution alert conditions are met, local print, radio, and
television news media will be notified. Announcements of the existence of an
air pollution "alert" will be made by the news media during regularly scheduled
broadcasts and in all editions of the official newspaper of Ada County. (Ord.
254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-7: BURNING SOLID FUEL OR REFUSE:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow refuse or coal to be burned in a solid
fuel heating appliance designed for wood fuel.
   B.   No person shall cause or allow a refuse incinerator to be operated
contrary to the design, specifications, and manufacturer's instructions. (Ord.
254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-8: AIR QUALITY ALERT/ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
At the onset and during the pendency of a declared air quality "alert", the
following additional restrictions apply:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow, after a three (3) hour "burn down", the
operation of a solid fuel heating appliance or open fireplace, unless an
exemption has been granted by Ada County development services and an exemption
decal is displayed and visible from a place of public access.
   B.   No person shall cause or allow the operation of a solid waste
incinerator.
   C.   No person shall cause or allow open burning of refuse or solid fuel.
(Ord. 254, 11-3-1992; amd. Ord. 637, 9-26-2006)
5-10-9: AIR QUALITY ALERT EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Ada County development services shall grant exemptions from this
chapter if it is determined by Ada County development services that:
      1.   A solid fuel heating appliance is the sole source of heat for the
structure in which it is situated; or
      2.   Using alternative heating would cause an unreasonable economic
hardship; or
      3.   The solid fuel heating appliance is listed by Ada County development
services as a clean burning appliance.
   B.   Any person denied an exemption under this chapter shall be provided, at
the option of the applicant for the exemption, a hearing before the building
board of appeals as created at title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
   C.   Any building constructed after the effective date of this chapter shall
not be eligible for an exemption under subsections A1 and A2 of this section.
(Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-10: SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE PERMITS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the unincorporated areas of Ada
County to install a solid fuel heating appliance in any new or existing
building without first obtaining from Ada County development services a solid
fuel heating appliance permit.
   B.   It shall be unlawful on or after July 1, 1987, for any person in
unincorporated Ada County to: advertise for sale, offer to sell, or sell for
installation in any new or existing building, a solid fuel heating appliance
which is not a clean burning appliance. (Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-11: ISSUANCE OF SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE PERMITS:
   A.   No solid fuel heating appliance permit shall be issued by the director
of Ada County development services or his designee for the installation of a
solid fuel heating appliance which is not a clean burning appliance.
   B.   Ada County development services shall maintain a list of clean burning
appliances. (Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-12: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Upon a showing of sufficient cause to believe that grounds exist for
the denial of the permit, the director of Ada County development services or
his designee may deny an application for a permit by sending through the
regular mail to the address on the application a written notice containing the
grounds for said denial and of the applicant's opportunity to appeal said
denial to the building board of appeals as created at title 7, chapter 1 of
this code.
   B.   Failure of a person to actually receive a notice sent shall not
invalidate the denial.
   C.   The applicant, upon receiving notice of the denial, may appeal said
denial by making application with Ada County development services for a hearing
before the building board of appeals within ten (10) working days of receipt of
the above notice. (Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-13: DENIAL HEARING AND DETERMINATION BY BOARD:
At any hearing before the building board of appeals pursuant to this chapter,
applicant may present evidence, call witnesses, and be represented by counsel.
Within ten (10) working days after the date of the hearing, the building board
of appeals shall after making appropriate written findings either:
   A.   Uphold the denial by the director of development services or his
designee; or
   B.   Allow the issuance of the permit or exemption with modifications or
conditions as the board may impose, such modifications or conditions to be
reasonably related to the use of the permit or exemption. (Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-14: APPEAL OF DECISION OF BOARD:
A decision of the building board of appeals on a denial shall be final and
conclusive. Appeal from a decision of the building board of appeals must be
made to the district court of the state of Idaho, in and for the county of Ada.
(Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-15: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CLEAN BURNING APPLIANCES:
   A.   In no event shall the standards for clean burning solid fuel heating
appliances, as adopted by rule and regulation by the building department and
upon approval of this chapter, allow a weighted average particulate emission
greater than:
      1.   For a new clean burning solid fuel heating appliance with a minimum
heat output of less than forty thousand (40,000) BTU per hour and tested
pursuant to procedures approved by the building department.
         a.   Seven and five-tenths grams (7.5 g) per hour for a noncatalytic
solid fuel heating appliance.
         b.   Four and one-tenth grams (4.1 g) per hour for a catalytic solid
fuel heating appliance.
      2.   Clean burning solid fuel heating appliances with a minimum heat
output of greater than forty thousand (40,000) BTU per hour shall not exceed an
average particulate emission standard equal to the sum of eight and zero-tenths
grams (8.0 g) per hour plus two-tenths gram (0.2 g) per hour for each one
thousand (1,000) BTU per hour heat output.
      3.   For any other solid fuel heating appliance officially exempted by
the environmental protection agency from the above requirements. (Ord. 254, 11-
3-1992)
5-10-16: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
Nothing in this chapter is intended to conflict with, supersede, repeal, or
affect any other regulations or requirements for the installation or inspection
of solid fuel heating appliances, including, but not limited to, those
regulations adopted at title 7, chapter 2 of this code. Further, nothing in
this chapter is entitled to conflict with, supersede, repeal, or affect any
other regulations or requirements for the burning, outdoor fires, and
incineration permits including, but not limited to, those regulations adopted
at section
5-2-7 of this title. (Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
5-10-17: PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or the failure or omission
to perform any duty imposed by the provisions of this chapter is hereby
declared unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by Idaho Code,
section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled. (Ord.
254, 11-3-1992; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 11
INDIGENT DECEASED PROCEDURES 1
SECTION:
5-11-1: Authority, Short Title And Purpose
5-11-2: Cremation Services; Designated
5-11-3: Disposal Of Remains
5-11-4: Objections To Cremation
5-11-5: Payment Of Expenditures
5-11-6: Nonindigent Resident
5-11-7: Transportation Of Bodies
5-11-8: Selection Of Cremation Provider
5-11-9: Exhumation Of Deceased Bodies
5-11-10: Place Of Burial
5-11-11: Effective Date
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 274, 4-21-1994; Ord. 279, 9-22-1994.
5-11-1: AUTHORITY, SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY INDIGENT DECEASED
PROCEDURES. To comply with the provisions of Idaho Code section 31-3412, it is
the purpose of this chapter to provide for the cremation of the bodies of the
indigent deceased who were Ada County residents at the time of their death. It
is the stated policy of Ada County that absent religious objection by the next
of kin, cremation is the chosen method for fulfilling its statutory duty as
provided by Idaho Code section 31-3412. (Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-2: CREMATION SERVICES; DESIGNATED:
The bodies of those indigent dead for whom Ada County has responsibility shall
be disposed of by cremation and shall only include a decedent who was both a
resident of Ada County and indigent at the time of his or her death, as
determined by indigent services, pursuant to a properly filed application. As
used in this chapter, "cremation services" shall not be deemed to include the
interment of cremated remains in a tomb, vault, crypt, or mausoleum, nor the
conducting of memorial or funeral services at Ada County expense. Provided,
however, that Ada County will cover the expense of burial of cremated remains
in a county owned burial plot in Dry Creek cemetery or placement in a county
owned crypt when there are no known family members of the deceased or the
family of the deceased declines possession of the decedent's remains. (Ord.
599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-3: DISPOSAL OF REMAINS:
If any surviving family members of an indigent decedent so desires, cremated
remains shall be deposited in an urn or other suitable container and custody
thereof given to that family member. If multiple family members wish to retain
the remains, they shall receive preference in the following order: spouse,
child(ren), parent(s), grandchild(ren), and sibling(s). If an indigent decedent
has no known surviving family, or if known family members decline custody of
cremated remains, such remains shall be buried in a county owned burial plot in
the Dry Creek cemetery or placed in a county owned crypt in accordance with
accepted industry standards within this community and at no additional cost to
the county. (Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-4: OBJECTIONS TO CREMATION:
In the event that a surviving spouse, child(ren), parent(s), grandchild(ren) of
an indigent decedent (entitled to priority) objects to disposition by cremation
on religious grounds before the indigent decedent is cremated, or if cremation
authorization is not received from the county coroner, the county may supply
burial costs, in an amount no greater than the cost the county applies toward
cremation. This amount shall be paid directly to the burial service provider,
shall not exceed the amount provided for cremations and shall only be provided
for services performed in accordance with state law and pursuant to local
industry standards. The county shall have no further responsibility for
supplying casket, vault, crypt, mausoleum, or funeral or burial services for
the decedent. If no objection is made pursuant to this section, or if an
indigent decedent has no known surviving family, said indigent decedent shall
be disposed of by cremation. (Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-5: PAYMENT OF EXPENDITURES:
Upon approval of a properly filed application and upon presentation of a death
certificate, Ada County indigent services will authorize a maximum expenditure
as set by resolution for cremation, or if there is an objection to cremation
from a family member entitled to priority on religious grounds, this same
maximum will be applied toward burial expenses. Any available resources of the
decedent must be used for cremation or burial costs prior to authorizing
expenditure of county funds. (Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-6: NONINDIGENT RESIDENT:
Ada County is not financially responsible for the burial or cremation of a
deceased person who at the time of their death was not an indigent resident of
Ada County or in the custody of the state of Idaho department of corrections,
federal government or any of its agencies, either in Ada County or elsewhere.
(Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-7: TRANSPORTATION OF BODIES:
Ada County will not pay any additional expenditures for the transporting of a
decedent or the remains to or from Ada County for any purpose. (Ord. 599, 11-8-
2005)
5-11-8: SELECTION OF CREMATION PROVIDER:
The next of kin, if any, shall make the selection of a business establishment
licensed in this state to provide cremation services; otherwise if there
appears to be no next of kin, selection shall be made by the county coroner.
Ada County will only make payment for cremation services to an establishment
licensed in this state to perform such services. (Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-9: EXHUMATION OF DECEASED BODIES:
Ada County will not pay to exhume a deceased body buried as an indigent. (Ord.
599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-10: PLACE OF BURIAL:
Ada County currently provides a plot at the Dry Creek cemetery for burial of
the cremated remains, but relatives may keep or dispose of the remains in a
manner acceptable to them. Four (4) cremated remains will be buried in one
standard plot. Alternatively, the county may purchase a crypt, and in such
case, cremated remains will be kept in the custody of the coroner until
placement in said crypt. (Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
5-11-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall take place from and after its passage, approval and
publication. (Ord. 599, 11-8-2005)
CHAPTER 12
AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNAS
SECTION:
5-12-1: Amateur Radio Antennas
5-12-1: AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNAS:
   A.   Amateur Radio Antennas And Supporting Towers: It is the intent of this
provision to allow amateur radio antennas in the unincorporated area of Ada
County providing there is no overriding negative impact on the health, safety,
and allowable concerns of surrounding residents and property. On allowed
antennas, the county must impose the minimal practicable regulations, balancing
between the community's interests and accommodation of amateur radio
communications.
The following conditions shall apply:
      1.   Zoning Districts Permitted: All zoning districts except for M-4 and
M-5 which require conditional use permits for any amateur radio antenna
placement.
      2.   Antenna Applications: All applications for amateur radio antennas
shall be accompanied by written approval from, if applicable, the federal
aviation administration, the chief of the Idaho bureau of aeronautics, and the
Boise airport commission. Said proposed antenna shall be in conformance with
the provisions of title 8, chapter 3, article A of this code.
      3.   Installation Applications: Applications for the installation of
amateur radio antennas and supporting towers shall be accompanied by written
plans and specifications including all design and structural information
required by Ada County building code. The building division staff shall review
said plans to determine if such structure and design is consistent with health
and safety interests, antenna placement, and allowable concerns of the
surrounding residents, property, and community.
      4.   Other Considerations: Among factors that must be considered are
applicable Ada County ordinances, federal communications commission decisions
and regulations regarding amateur radio antennas, placement, and allowable
community concerns. (Ord. 301, 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 13
NOISE
SECTION:
5-13-1: Short Title
5-13-2: Authority And Purpose
5-13-3: Prohibited Acts
5-13-4: Exemptions And Temporary Waivers
5-13-5: Penalty
5-13-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY NOISE ORDINANCE. (Ord.
331, 6-3-1997)
5-13-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by article 12, section
2, Idaho Constitution, and sections 31-714, 31-801, Idaho Code. Its purpose is
to provide for and further the safety, health, peace, good order, comfort and
convenience of the inhabitants of Ada County by providing a procedure for
abating loud or offensive noises within the County between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 331, 6-3-1997)
5-13-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. one day and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the next day, it shall be unlawful for any person or business to
make, cause, or allow loud or unusual noise by means of voice, musical
instrument, horn, radio, loudspeaker, automobile, machinery, other sound
amplifying equipment, domesticated animals, or any other means which disturbs
the peace, quiet, and comfort of any reasonable person of normal sensitiveness
residing in the area. Loud or unusual noise is that which is plainly audible
within any residence or business, other than the source of the sound, or upon a
public right- of-way or street at a distance of one hundred feet (100') or more
from the source of said sound.
   B.   Due to extreme heat during the summer months of June, July and August
construction noise may begin at six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   C.   Due to extreme heat during the summer months of June, July and August
landscape maintenance noise may begin at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 331, 6-
3-1997; amd. Ord. 710, 9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 753, 6-21-2010; amd. Ord. 922, 6-22-
2021)
5-13-4: EXEMPTIONS AND TEMPORARY WAIVERS:
   A.   Exemptions: This chapter shall not apply to emergency vehicles, while
acting in response to an emergency; locomotive or other railway equipment;
airplanes and other FAA regulated aircraft; nor public displays of fireworks
authorized and approved under chapter 26, title 39, Idaho Code. The Board may
grant other exemptions to the ordinance after approval of a resolution that
includes a rationale explaining why the exemption is warranted. An exemption to
the ordinance shall consider factors, including but not limited to:
      1.   The historical timeframe of the activity(s);
      2.   The surrounding land use when the activity(s) began;
      3.   The number of people served by the activity(s);
      4.   The benefit of the activity(s) to the community;
      5.   The adverse impact on the existing activity(s) to comply with
ordinance;
      6.   The time of day the activity(s) begins;
      7.   The duration of the activity(s), i.e. seasonal or continuous; and
      8.   Whether reasonable alternative locations exist to host the activity
(s).
   B.   Temporary Waivers: A person or entity may apply to the Board of Ada
County Commissioners for a temporary waiver from the provisions of this
chapter. Such application shall be submitted to the Board of Ada County
Commissioners at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of the activity
or event seeking the waiver. As part of the application, the applicant shall
notify property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the lot or parcel on which the event or activity will be
conducted of the event or activity. (Ord. 331, 6-3-1997; amd. Ord. 332, 6-26-
1997; amd. Ord. 871, 8-22-2017; amd. Ord. 872, 9-12-2017; amd. Ord. 922, 6-22-
2021)
5-13-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
section 18-113, Idaho Code as it may from time to time be amended and/or
retitled. (Ord. 331, 6-3-1997; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 14
MOSQUITO AND VERMIN ABATEMENT
SECTION:
5-14-1: Short Title
5-14-2: Authority And Purpose
5-14-3: Definitions
5-14-4: Operation Of Abatement District By The Board Of County Commissioners
5-14-5: Powers And Duties Of Board Of County Commissioners Serving As Abatement
District Board Of Trustees
5-14-6: Advisory Committee
5-14-7: Powers And Duties Of Advisory Committee
5-14-8: Terms Of Office And Compensation Of Advisory Committee
5-14-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY MOSQUITO AND VERMIN ABATEMENT
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 770, 3-1-2011)
5-14-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to title 39, chapter 28, Idaho Code, as may be
amended or retitled from time to time, and is intended to provide for the
operation of the Ada County mosquito abatement district. (Ord. 770, 3-1-2011)
5-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
ADA COUNTY MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT: Also known as the southwest Ada County
mosquito abatement district, formerly known as the southwest Ada County
mosquito abatement district and as the Three Mile Creek mosquito abatement
district.
ADA COUNTY WEED, PEST AND MOSQUITO ABATEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE: Formerly, the
Ada County weed and pest advisory committee and the southwest Ada County
mosquito abatement district board of trustees.
ADA COUNTY WEED, PEST AND MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DIRECTOR: The current director of
Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The current officials serving as the Ada County
board of commissioners. (Ord. 770, 3-1-2011)
5-14-4: OPERATION OF ABATEMENT DISTRICT BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
The southwest Ada County mosquito abatement district, through its board of
trustees, having sought operation of the southwest Ada County mosquito
abatement district, pursuant to title 39, chapter 28, Idaho Code, by the board
of county commissioners, and the board of county commissioners, having accepted
the operation of the southwest Ada County mosquito abatement district, by
adopting Ada County resolution 1577, dated October 14, 2008, by adoption of
this chapter, shall accept and exercise the powers and duties otherwise charged
to the southwest Ada County mosquito abatement district board of trustees.
(Ord. 770, 3-1-2011)
5-14-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS SERVING AS ABATEMENT
DISTRICT BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The board of county commissioners is authorized to exercise the following
powers and duties and responsibilities in the operation of the Ada County
mosquito abatement district, pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-2804, as may be
amended or retitled from time to time:
   A.   To appoint an Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement director to
direct the activities of the Ada County mosquito abatement district, in
accordance with the training and experience necessary to fulfill the duties of
the position.
   B.   To appoint such other persons as necessary, determine their duties and
compensation, and make rules and regulations respecting them.
   C.   To take all necessary and proper steps for the control of mosquitoes
and other vermin of public health and welfare importance in the district and
for these purposes shall have the right to enter upon any and all lands.
   D.   To sue and be sued.
   E.   To contract to purchase, hold, dispose of, and acquire by gift real and
personal property of the Ada County mosquito abatement district. To exercise
the right of eminent domain and for these purposes to condemn any necessary
land or rights of way in accordance with general law.
   F.   To abate as nuisance, breeding places of mosquitoes or other vermin of
public health and welfare importance within the Ada County mosquito abatement
district or within migrating distance of the Ada County mosquito abatement
district by use of chemicals or permanent control measures and in this
connection have the right to enter upon any and all lands.
   G.   To work with the lateral ditch water users associations, irrigation,
drainage and flood control districts and other cooperating organizations. The
board of county commissioners may supplement funds of cooperating organizations
for improvement, repair, maintenance and cleaning of ditches which will
temporarily or permanently eliminate mosquito breeding or for other activities
which will benefit the Ada County mosquito abatement district.
   H.   To submit questions of annexation of contiguous territories to the
legal voters of the Ada County mosquito abatement district, in accordance with
Idaho Code section 39-2806, as it may be amended or retitled from time to time.
   I.   To receive for its approval an estimate of funds required for the next
year, a plan of the work to be done, and methods to be employed. No procedure,
work or contract for any year of operation shall be done or entered upon until
plans and budget have been approved by the board of county commissioners.
   J.   To receive, by February 1 of the succeeding year, a report setting
forth the monies expended during the previous year, methods employed, and work
accomplishments.
   K.   To approve a written mosquito/vermin management plan submitted by a
landowner requesting that their property be excluded from treatment by the Ada
County mosquito abatement district. Such plan must be specific to the
landowner's property, provide adequate control measures, and be implemented by
the landowner. The board of county commissioners shall refrain from treatment
of property included in the approved plan, but shall maintain monitoring and
surveillance activities. If the landowner fails to follow the plan or does not
provide adequate control measures, the board of county commissioners may abate
the mosquitoes or other vermin.
   L.   To cooperate with other entities. At its discretion, the board of
county commissioners may cooperate with and enter into annual agreements or
contract with governmental agencies of this state, other states, agencies of
the federal government, private associations, and private individuals in order
to carry out the purposes and provisions of title 39, chapter 28, Idaho Code,
as may be amended or retitled from time to time.
   M.   To make appointments to the Ada County weed, pest and mosquito
abatement advisory committee, as needed. (Ord. 770, 3-1-2011)
5-14-6: ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
The Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement advisory committee shall serve
in an advisory capacity to the Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement
director and the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 770, 3-1-2011)
5-14-7: POWERS AND DUTIES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   To meet monthly with the Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement
director.
   B.   To assist in developing strategic long term goals and policies for the
abatement of noxious weeds, pests, mosquitoes or other vermin in Ada County.
   C.   To counsel the Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement director
and the board of county commissioners, as needed, in areas of technology,
research, planning and prioritization of projects related to mosquito and
vermin, noxious weed and pest abatement in Ada County.
   D.   To engage in other activities or studies in furtherance of public
education and public outreach, at the direction of the Ada County weed, pest
and mosquito abatement director or the board of county commissioners. (Ord.
770, 3-1-2011)
5-14-8: TERMS OF OFFICE AND COMPENSATION OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
The Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement advisory committee shall
consist of seven (7) members, to be appointed by the board of county
commissioners and shall serve at the pleasure of the board of county
commissioners for a term of four (4) years. Ex officio members may also be
called upon for advice or assistance, in accordance with title 39, chapter 28,
Idaho Code, as may be amended or retitled from time to time. Members of the Ada
County weed, pest and mosquito abatement advisory committee may be reappointed
to serve for additional terms of office after the expiration of the current
term of office. Members of the Ada County weed, pest and mosquito abatement
advisory committee shall not receive compensation but will be reimbursed for
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties. (Ord.
770, 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 15
DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
5-15-1:    Purpose And Declaration Of Policy
5-15-2:    Definitions
5-15-3:    Prohibited Discriminatory Acts
5-15-4:    Exceptions
5-15-5:    Unlawful Intimidation, Retaliation And Interference
5-15-6:    Private Right Of Action
5-15-7:    Penalty
5-15-1: PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.    Purpose: In order to ensure that all persons, regardless of sexual
orientation and gender identity/expression enjoy the full benefits of
citizenship and are afforded equal opportunities for employment, housing,
commercial property and the use of public accommodations, Ada County ("County")
has determined that discrimination on these bases must be addressed, and
appropriate legislation be enacted.
   B.    Rights of Individuals: It is hereby declared that every individual in
the County has the right to work and earn wages through gainful employment, has
the right to seek housing, and has the right to enjoy public accommodation and
hospitality.
   C.    Public Policy: It is hereby declared the public policy of the County
to foster the employment of all individuals in accordance with their abilities.
Every individual has the right to work and earn wages through gainful
employment. Discriminatory employment practices are detrimental because they
impede the social and economic progress of a County by preventing all of the
County citizens from contributing to the cultural, spiritual, social and
commercial life of the community. The contributions of all the citizens of the
County are essential to the County's growth, vitality and prosperity.
   D.    Intent: It is the intent of this chapter that all persons be treated
fairly and equally, and it is the express intent of this chapter to guarantee
fair and equal treatment under the law to all people in the County. The denial
of fair and equal treatment under the law due to sexual orientation and gender
identity/expression is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
County citizens and damages a County's economic well-being.
   E.    Police Power: This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police
power of the County to provide for the safety, promote the health and
prosperity, improve the morals, peace, good order, comfort, and convenience of
the County, its residents and the community.
   F.    Supplement To Law: The prohibitions against discriminatory acts as
provided for in this chapter are intended to supplement State and Federal Civil
Rights Law prohibiting discrimination in the areas of employment, public
accommodations and housing. For complaints alleging discrimination on a basis
proscribed under State or Federal law (e.g., race, color, religious creed,
ancestry, age, sex, national origin and/or disability) the complainant is
advised of their right to file a report alleging a violation of Idaho Code
section 18-7301 et seq., and/or their right to file a complaint with the Idaho
Commission on Human Rights and/or the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission pursuant to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended,
the Fair Housing Act of 1968, as amended, or the Americans With Disabilities
Act of 1990, as amended. (Ord. 908, 2-12-2020)
5-15-2: DEFINITIONS:  
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
 
      Any act which, directly or indirectly, by any person or their agent or
      employee, results or is intended or calculated to result in whole or in
      part in any discrimination, distinction, restriction or unequal treatment
      or representation. It also includes, but is not limited to, the requiring
      of a person to pay a larger sum than the uniform rates charged other
DENY: persons, or the refusing or withholding from persons the admission,
      patronage, custom, presence, frequenting, dwelling, staying or lodging in
      any place of public resort, accommodation, assemblage or amusement,
      except for conditions and limitations established by law and applicable
      alike to all persons, regardless of sexual orientation and/or gender
      identity/expression.
 
 
                                        Any direct or indirect exclusion,
                                        distinction, segregation, limitation,
                                        refusal, denial or other
                                        differentiation in the treatment of a
                                        person because of a person's actual or
                                        perceived sexual orientation or gender
DISCRIMINATION:                         identity/expression or because of a
                                        person's association with any such
                                        person. Discrimination shall not be
                                        interpreted to require or to grant or
                                        accord any preferential treatment to
                                        any person because of that person's
                                        sexual orientation or gender identity/
                                        expression.
                                        To include, but not be limited to, the
                                        right to use, rent or purchase real
                                        property, any service, commodity or
                                        article of personal property offered or
                                        sold by any person or establishment to
                                        the public, and the admission of any
                                        person to accommodations, advantages,
FULL ENJOYMENT OF:                      facilities or privileges of any place
                                        of public resort, accommodation,
                                        assemblage or amusement, without acts
                                        directly or indirectly causing persons
                                        of any particular sexual orientation
                                        and/or gender identity/expression to be
                                        treated as not welcome, accepted,
                                        desired or solicited.
                                        A gender related identity, appearance,
GENDER EXPRESSION/ IDENTITY:            expression or behavior of an
                                        individual, regardless of a person's
                                        assigned sex at birth.
                                        A building or portion of a building,
                                        whether constructed or to be
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION :                 constructed, that is or will be used as
                                        the home, domicile, residence or
                                        sleeping quarters of its occupants.
                                        Any natural person, firm, corporation,
PERSON:                                 partnership or other organization,
                                        association or group of persons however
                                        arranged.
                                        Includes, but is not limited to, any
                                        public place, licensed or unlicensed,
                                        kept for gain, hire or reward, or where
                                        charges are made for admission,
                                        service, occupancy or use of any
                                        property or facilities, whether
                                        conducted for the entertainment,
                                        housing or lodging of transient guests,
                                        or for the benefit, use or
                                        accommodation of those seeking health,
                                        recreation or rest, or for the sale of
                                        goods and merchandise, or for the
                                        rendering of personal services, or for
                                        public conveyance or transportation on
                                        land, water or in the air, including
                                        the stations and terminals thereof, and
                                        the garaging of vehicles, or where food
                                        or beverages of any kind are sold for
                                        consumption on the premises, or where
                                        public amusement, entertainment, sports
                                        or recreation of any kind is offered,
                                        with or without charge, or where
                                        medical service or care is made
PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT, ACCOMMODATION , available, or where the public gathers,
ASSEMBLAGE OR AMUSEMENT:                congregates, or assembles for
                                        amusement, recreation or public
                                        purposes, or public halls, public
                                        elevators and public washrooms of
                                        buildings and structures occupied by
                                        two (2) or more tenants, or by the
                                        owner and one or more tenants, or any
                                        public library or any educational
                                        institution wholly or partially
                                        supported by public funds, or schools
                                        of special instruction, or nursery
                                        schools, or daycare centers or
                                        children's camps; nothing herein
                                        contained shall be construed to
                                        include, or apply to, any institute,
                                        bona fide club or place of
                                        accommodation, which is by its nature
                                        distinctly private; provided, that
                                        where public use is permitted, that use
                                        shall be covered by this section; nor
                                        shall anything herein contained apply
                                        to any educational facility operated or
                                        maintained by a bona fide religious or
                                        sectarian institution.
 
 
                    Actual or perceived homosexuality, heterosexuality and/or
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: bisexuality and/or gender identity/expression. (Ord. 908,
                    2-12-2020)
 
5-15-3: PROHIBITED DISCRIMINATORY ACTS: The following acts are prohibited:
   A.   To deny to any other person because of sexual orientation and/or gender
identity/expression the right to work: 1) by failing or refusing to hire; 2) by
discharging; 3) by barring from employment; 4) by discriminating against such
person in compensation or in other terms or conditions of employment; or 5)
otherwise discriminating against an individual with respect to employment.
   B.   To deny to or to discriminate against any person because of sexual
orientation and/or gender identity/expression the full enjoyment of any of the
accommodations, advantages, facilities or privileges of any place of public
resort, accommodation, assemblage or amusement.
   C.   To deny to or discriminate against any other person because of sexual
orientation and/or gender identity/expression in the sale, purchase, lease or
rental of any housing accommodation, or to otherwise discriminate in the terms
and conditions, maintenance, improvement or repair of any housing
accommodation. (Ord. 908, 2-12-2020)
5-15-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.    Notwithstanding any other provision herein, nothing in this chapter is
intended to alter or abridge other rights, protections or privileges secured
under State and/or Federal law. This chapter shall be construed and applied in
a manner consistent with First Amendment jurisprudence regarding the freedom of
speech and exercise of religion.
   B.   This chapter does not apply to:
      1.   Religious corporations, associations, educational institutions or
societies.
      2.   An expressive association whose employment of a person protected by
this chapter would significantly burden the association's rights of expressive
association under Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, 530 U.S. 640 (2000).
      3.   The United States government, any of its departments or agencies or
any corporation wholly owned by it; or the State of Idaho or any of its
departments, agencies or political subdivisions, except the County.
   C.   This chapter shall not apply: 1) to the rental of a housing
accommodation in a building which contains housing accommodations for not more
than two (2) families living independently of each other, if the lessor or a
member of his family resides in one of the housing accommodations; or 2) to the
rental of a room or rooms in a single-family residential housing accommodation
by an individual if the individual or a member of the individual's family
resides therein. (Ord. 908, 2-12-2020)
5-15-5: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION, RETALIATION AND INTERFERENCE:  
It shall be unlawful for any person to discriminate against, harass, threaten,
harm, damage or otherwise penalize another person for opposing an unlawful
practice, for filing a complaint, for assisting or participating in any manner
in the investigation, or in mediation concerning this chapter. (Ord. 908, 2-12-
2020)
5-15-6: PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION:  
There is no private right of action that is created by this chapter or money
damages available to any person based on this chapter. (Ord. 908, 2-12-2020)
5-15-7: PENALTY:
   A.   First Offense. Any person found in violation of any of the provisions
of this Chapter shall be guilty of an infraction for the first offense. Such
violation shall be subject to the penalty of a fine of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) plus the appropriate court costs.
   B.   Subsequent Offense(s). Any person found in violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter within five (5) years of any previous violation of
any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, subject
to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this Code
   C.   Reduction To Infraction: A Prosecutor may reduce the violation to an
infraction, punishable as provided above, if the defendant engages in
corrective actions, which may include, but are not limited to, the following:
sensitivity training for the defendant and/or the defendant's employees; the
defendant's agreement to adopt and pursue a policy of nondiscrimination in its
practices; and the defendant's agreement to not engage in discriminatory
practices in the future. The charge shall be filed as a misdemeanor violation
and may only be reduced upon motion of the prosecutor. There shall be no right
to a trial by jury for an infraction citation or complaint.
   D.   Time Limit To File Complaint: A complaint filed under the provisions of
this chapter must be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days of the alleged
discriminatory conduct. This complaint will be forwarded to the Ada County
Prosecutor's Office for review for filing decision for a civil infraction.
   E.   False Reporting: Any person who falsely reports a violation of this
chapter may be charged with the crime of providing false information to law
enforcement, Idaho Code § 18-5413. (Ord. 908, 2-12-2020)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws
6-1-2: Motor Vehicle License Fees
6-1-3: Motor Vehicle Emissions Control (Rep. by Ord. 953, 6-5-2023)
6-1-4: Air Compression Brakes
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS:
That certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file at the office of
the county clerk, being marked and identified as the Idaho motor vehicle laws,
and published annually by the authority of the Idaho department of
transportation, Boise, Idaho, be and the same is hereby adopted as the motor
vehicle laws of the county, for the regulation of motor vehicles and motor
vehicle traffic outside the municipal boundaries of the various incorporated
cities within Ada County, and said Idaho motor vehicle laws, and any subsequent
amendments enacted into law by the Idaho legislature, contained in said
document, or its subsequent editions, are hereby adopted and made a part
hereof, as if set forth in full. (Ord. 131, 9-21-1983)
   A.   Form Of Citations: When citations are issued for violations of this
section, a reference to the corresponding Idaho motor vehicle law shall be made
on the citation in the following manner:
      .114 A violation of I.C. §49-114, Display of Plates and Tags, shall be
cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .116 A violation of I.C. §49-116, Registration to be Renewed, shall be
cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .233 A violation of I.C. §49-233, Required Motor Vehicle Insurance, shall
be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .245 A violation of I.C. §49-245, Certificate or Proof of Liability
Insurance to be Carried in Motor Vehicle, shall be cited as a violation of this
section of the Ada County code.
      .307 A violation of I.C. §49-307, Operators and Chauffeurs Must be
Licensed, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .320 A violation of I.C. §49-320, Restricted Licenses, shall be cited as
a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .612 A violation of I.C. §49-612, Traffic Control Signal Legend, shall be
cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .626 A violation of I.C. §49-626, Further Limitations on Driving Left of
Center of Roadway, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada
County code.
      .627 A violation of I.C. §49-627, No Passing Zones, shall be cited as a
violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .630 A violation of I.C. §49-630, Following Too Closely, shall be cited
as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .642 A violation of I.C. §49-642, Vehicle Turning Left, shall be cited as
a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .643 A violation of I.C. §49-643, Stop Signs and Yield Signs, shall be
cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .644 A violation of I.C. §49-644, Vehicle Entering Roadway, shall be
cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .661 A violation of I.C. §49-661, Required Position and Method of
Turning, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .681 A violation of I.C. §49-681, Basic Rule and Maximum Speed Limits,
shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .693 A violation of I.C. §49-693, Stopping, Standing or Parking
Prohibited in Specific Places, shall be cited as a violation of this section of
the Ada County code.
      .702 A violation of I.C. §49-702, Limitations on Backing, shall be cited
as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .711 A violation of I.C. §49-711, Putting Glass, Etc. on Highway
Prohibited, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County
code.
      .801A A violation of I.C. §49-801A, Slow Moving Vehicles - Definition,
Restriction, Equipment - Emblems on Certain Machinery, shall be cited as a
violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .801B A violation of I.C. §49-801B, Fertilizer Trailers - Defined as
Implements of Husbandry - Operational Restrictions, shall be cited as a
violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .801C A violation of I.C. §49-801C, Scope and Effect of Regulations,
shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .837 A violation of I.C. §49-837, Windshields Must be Unobstructed and
Equipped with Wipers, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada
County code.
      .837A A violation of I.C. §49-837A, Prohibiting use of Certain
Applications on Windshields, Certain Windows or Headlamps in Motor Vehicles -
Exterior Mirrors - Sales Prohibited - Penalty, shall be cited as a violation of
this section of the Ada County code.
      .1002 A violation of I.C. §49-1002, Accidents Involving Damage to
Vehicle, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .1004 A violation of I.C. §49-1004, Duty Upon Striking Unattended
Vehicle, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .1006 A violation of I.C. §49-1006, Immediate Notice of Accidents, shall
be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .1103 A violation of I.C. §49-1103, Reckless Driving, shall be cited as a
violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .1132 A violation of I.C. §49-1132, Overtaking and Passing School Bus,
shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County code.
      .2703 A violation of I.C. §49-2703, Requirements - Registration -
Procedure, shall be cited as a violation of this section of the Ada County
code. (Ord. 167, 3-12-1987)
6-1-2: MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Short Title And Purpose: This section shall be known as and cited as
the ADA COUNTY VEHICLE LICENSE FEE ORDINANCE enacted to provide funds
sufficient to pay the expense incurred by Ada County in its exercise of duties
relating to vehicle licensure and issuance of a motor vehicle title.
   B.   Definitions: All words and phrases not specifically defined in this
chapter will be given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted
meanings.
   C.   Administrative Fees: Pursuant to section 31-870, Idaho Code, an
administrative fee for vehicle licensure or for issuance of a motor vehicle
title, or both, shall be collected in addition to each motor vehicle
registration tax or fee collected under the provisions of sections 49-402 and
49-434, Idaho Code. In addition, the county shall collect postage and a
handling fee whenever mail out registration services are performed by the Ada
County assessor's office, motor vehicle department. Postage shall be charged at
the rate set by the U.S. postal service. Administrative and handling fees are
to be set by resolution of the board of county commissioners, and shall be
enacted when duly voted upon by the board of county commissioners. These fees
shall be paid to the county treasurer and be placed in the county's current
expense fund.
   D.   Code Priority: Requirements specifically addressed by more than one
code will be in accordance with the most restrictive code adopted herein. (Ord.
119, 9-21-1981; amd. Ord. 119-2-84, 12-12-1984; amd. Ord. 190, 7-7-1988; amd.
Ord. 281, 11-3-1994; amd. Ord. 513, 8-5-2003; amd. Ord. 611, 3-14-2006; amd.
Ord. 956, - -2023, eff. 7-1-2023)
6-1-3: MOTOR VEHICLE EMISSIONS CONTROL:
Repealed by Ord. 953, 6-5-2023.
6-1-4: AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Use Of Air Compression Brakes Prohibited: The use of air compression
brakes (also known as "jake brakes") by vehicles or trucks, as defined in Idaho
Code title 49, chapter 1, within unincorporated Ada County is hereby prohibited
and shall be unlawful, except under emergency circumstances where the use of
air compression brakes is necessary to prevent an accident or injury to persons
or property.
   B.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon judgment thereof shall be subject to
the penalty set forth in Idaho infraction rule 9(b) (other infractions).
Failure to satisfy judgment as ordered by the court pursuant to this section
shall be deemed contempt of court punishable as a misdemeanor pursuant to Idaho
Code section 18-1801. (Ord. 349, 11-18-1997)
CHAPTER 2
MOTORBOAT CONTROL ORDINANCE
SECTION:
6-2-1: Short Title And Purpose
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Unauthorized Use Or Tampering
6-2-4: Use Of Waterway Ramps
6-2-5: Warning Flags For Waterski Boats
6-2-6: Noise Control
6-2-7: Enforcement And Penalties
6-2-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the ADA COUNTY MOTORBOAT CONTROL ORDINANCE. The
purpose of this chapter is:
   A.   To provide for the health and safety of the people of Ada County;
   B.   To provide for the safe use of motorboats within Ada County; and
   C.   To prevent and provide punishment for the unauthorized use of, or
tampering with motorboats. (Ord. 101, 10-29-1980)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
MOTORBOAT: Any vessel propelled by machinery whether or not such machinery is
the principal source of propulsion.
OPERATE: To navigate or drive, or otherwise use a motorboat or vessel.
VESSEL: Every description of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water. (Ord. 101,
10-29-1980)
6-2-3: UNAUTHORIZED USE OR TAMPERING:
   A.   Any person who shall operate a vessel or motorboat, not his own,
without the consent of the owner thereof and with intent to temporarily deprive
said owner of his possession of such vessel or motorboat, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. The consent of the owner of a vessel or motorboat to its taking or
driving shall not in any case be presumed or implied because of such owner's
consent on a previous occasion to the taking or driving of such vessel or
motorboat by the same or a different person. Any person who knowingly assists
in, or is a party or accessory to or an accomplice in any such unauthorized
taking or operating shall also be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Any person who shall individually or in association with one or more
others wilfully break, injure, tamper with or remove any part or parts of any
vessel or motorboat for the purpose of injuring, defacing or destroying such
vessel or motorboat, or temporarily or permanently preventing its useful
operation, or for any purpose against the will or without the consent of the
owner of such vessel or motorboat or who shall in any other manner wilfully or
maliciously interfere with or prevent the running or operation of such vessel
or motorboat shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Any person who shall, without the consent of the owner or person in
charge of a vessel or motorboat, climb into or upon such vessel or motorboat
with the intent to commit any crime, malicious mischief or injury thereto, or
who, while a vessel or motorboat is at rest and unattended, shall attempt to
manipulate any of the levers, starting crank, other starting device or other
mechanism thereof, or to set said vessel or motorboat in motion, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 101, 10-29-1980)
6-2-4: USE OF WATERWAY RAMPS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, trailer or carrier
wholly or partially upon any ramp or accessway provided for loading and
unloading of boats, persons or property in conjunction with public use of any
navigable waterways in Ada County, or otherwise to obstruct such ramp or way by
any means, except during the reasonable time necessary for such loading or
unloading operation to be completed. (Ord. 101, 10-29-1980)
6-2-5: WARNING FLAGS FOR WATERSKI BOATS:
   A.   Any boat used for pulling waterskiers or similar sporting activity in
which persons or objects are in or on the water, shall be equipped with a red
flag which is clearly visible from all sides at a distance of five hundred feet
(500').
   B.   Whenever any waterskier or participant of a similar activity is down in
the water, and the boat is stopped to wait for or attend the person that is
down, the red flag required by subsection A of this section shall be displayed
as a warning to other boaters. As long as any person or object is in the water,
the flag shall remain displayed to prevent danger to that person and hazards to
passing boats.
   C.   A red flag shall be displayed from a motorboat only under the
conditions set forth in subsection B of this section or when any other danger
exists. The display of a red flag from a motorboat under any other
circumstances shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 101, 10-29-1980)
6-2-6: NOISE CONTROL:
   A.   All motorboats shall be equipped with an efficient muffler, underwater
exhaust or other modern devices capable of adequately muffling the sound of the
exhaust of the engine.
   B.   The creation of a disturbance through loud, disturbing or unnecessary
noise by a motorboat, whether or not it is equipped with a muffling device, is
prohibited. The operator of a motorboat creating such a disturbance shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 101, 10-29-1980)
6-2-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Ada County sheriff, or any deputy sheriff,
to leave notice at or on any vehicle or other property parked in violation of
section
6-2-4 of this chapter. This notice shall bear the date and hour of leaving the
same at or upon the vehicle. The notice shall instruct the owner or operator of
the vehicle or property to report to the magistrate's division of the district
court in regard to such violation. It shall be the duty of such sheriff or
deputy sheriff to leave at or upon such vehicle a separate notice for each hour
thereafter that such vehicle and/or property remains parked in violation of
this chapter. In the event such owner or operator fails to report to the
magistrate's division at the time provided in said notice, a warrant for the
arrest of said person will be issued. In addition to the penalty assessed by
the court for violation of this chapter, the enforcing officer shall be
authorized to tow away or otherwise remove the vehicle or property. The owner
or operator of any vehicle or other property shall be liable for any expense
incurred by the county involving said vehicle to be towed away or otherwise
removed. The owner or operator of any vehicle or property shall be liable for
any and all other reasonable expenses for storage charged by the company
removing said vehicle and causing said vehicle to be stored.
   B.   Every person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished
as provided by Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be
amended and/or retitled, except for violation of section
6-2-4 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of twenty five dollars
($25.00). (Ord. 101, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 3
OFF ROAD VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Short Title And Purpose
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Vehicle Operation Restricted
6-3-4: Exceptions To Restrictions
6-3-5: Penalty
6-3-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY OFF ROAD VEHICLES
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of off road
vehicles and to prohibit their operation on private land without permission of
the owner of the land. (Ord. 102, 10-29-1980)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
other words and phrases not defined in this chapter shall be given their
ordinary, commonly understood and accepted meanings.
BUSINESS INVITEE: Any individual who, during the course of his business, is
required to enter upon the property of another with the implied consent of the
owner of the property.
DRIVEWAY: A path (paved or unpaved) leading from a garage or house to a street
used especially by automobiles.
ELECTRONIC POWER-ASSISTED BICYCLE (E-BIKE): A vehicle having two (2) tandem
wheels or two (2) parallel wheels and one forward wheel, any two (2) of which
are not less than twelve inches (12") in diameter, that is designed to be
operated by human power with the assistance of an electronic motor that has a
power output of no more than seven hundred fifty (750) watts that: a) is
incapable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of more than twenty (20) miles
per hour; and b) disengages or ceases to function when the vehicle's brakes are
applied. An E-bike is not a vehicle for purposes of this chapter.
ESTABLISHED OFF ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE RESERVATION TRAIL: Any area set aside as a
public recreation site with specific use in areas permitted for off road motor
vehicles by any local, State or Federal governmental agency, or any private
property formally designated by the Board of County Commissioners through
appropriate zoning approvals for off road motor vehicle use.
INVITEE: Any individual entering upon the property of another with the implied
consent of the owner of the property.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every self-propelled device in which any person or property is
or may be transported, either on or off the public roadway, except those
vehicles which are designed and used primarily as farm implements for drawing
plows, mowing machines, or other implements of husbandry or heavy equipment
employed for logging, grading or developing public or private lands. Motor
vehicles, for the purposes of this chapter, shall include, but are not limited
to, any motorcycle, motorized tricycle, four-wheel drive automobile or truck,
any multiwheeled all-terrain vehicle, and conventional passenger automobiles or
trucks. E-bikes are not motor vehicles for the purposes of this chapter.
OWNER: The titled owner of record as established in the Offices of the Ada
County Recorder, or the contract purchaser, lessee or renter of such property.
(Ord. 102, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 882, 4-17-2018)
6-3-3: VEHICLE OPERATION RESTRICTED:
   A.   The riding, operating or driving of a motor vehicle shall be done in a
lawful manner with required equipment and licensing upon a public highway.
Unlicensed motor vehicles or motor vehicles without required equipment as well
as properly licensed and registered vehicles are restricted to established off
road motor vehicle reservation trails or private property pursuant to this
chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to ride, operate
or drive any motor vehicle or E-bike on privately owned property within Ada
County including any private unpaved road except for: 1) the owners of such
property, or 2) those who have on their persons at the time of riding,
operating or driving said motor vehicle, written permission from the owner of
such private property. (Ord. 102, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 188, 3-31-1988; amd.
Ord. 882, 4-17-2018)
6-3-4: EXCEPTIONS TO RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not meant to affect in any way the right of a business invitee
to enter upon the land of another in pursuit of his business, nor to affect the
right of an invitee to approach any private residence by way of a driveway when
said invitee approaches a house with implied consent of the owner. (Ord. 102,
10-29-1980)
6-3-5: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided by Idaho Code,
section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled. (Ord.
102, 10-29-1980; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 4
LAW ENFORCEMENT TOWING 1
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Driving Tow Truck To Scene Of Accident Prohibited Unless Called By
Dispatch
6-4-3: Soliciting Tow Business At Scene Of Law Enforcement Tow Prohibited
6-4-4: Response To Certain Private Calls For Towing Services Prohibited
6-4-5: Certain Remuneration Or Consideration Prohibited
6-4-6: Dispatch
6-4-7: Licensee Responsibilities
6-4-8: License Required; Expiration Date; Location
6-4-9: License Application; Inspections; Issuance
6-4-10: Random Inspections; Violations; Suspensions; Revocations; Hearings
6-4-11: Tow Truck Specifications And Capabilities
6-4-12: Fees For Law Enforcement Towing
6-4-13: Requirements And Operating Procedures For Emergency Tow Companies
6-4-14: Use As Emergency Vehicle Prohibited
6-4-15: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 174, 7-16-1987; Ord. 238, 5-9-1991; Ord.
  357, 5-12-1998.
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms will have the following meanings:
ACCIDENT: Any occurrence in Ada County which results in a wrecked or disabled
vehicle, and which results in either the injury or death of any person, or
damage to property of any one person in excess of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), or both.
ADA COUNTY: That area which is within the jurisdiction of the board of Ada
County commissioners.
BUSINESS DAY: Monday through Friday excluding holidays declared by the board of
Ada County commissioners.
DISABLED VEHICLE: A vehicle which has been abandoned or rendered unsafe to be
driven as the result of some occurrence other than an accident including, but
not limited to: a) mechanical failures or breakdowns; b) fire; c) vandalism; d)
a vehicle which is in a safe driving condition, but the owner is not present,
able or permitted to drive; or e) any other occurrence which reasonably
necessitates removal of the vehicle by a tow truck.
DISPATCH: The person or persons in the Ada County sheriff's office assigned by
the sheriff to route law enforcement agency calls for tow truck service by the
use of tow truck rotation list.
EMERGENCY TOW COMPANY: A person to whom a law enforcement towing license has
been issued.
IMPOUND OFFICER: The employee designated by the Ada County sheriff to handle
law enforcement towing duties.
LAW ENFORCEMENT TOW: Provision of a tow truck to the owner of a wrecked or
disabled vehicle by dispatch when a law enforcement agency has become involved.
LICENSEE: A person licensed to engage in law enforcement towing as called to do
so from time to time by dispatch.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title to a vehicle, or who has legal right of
possession of a vehicle, or legal right of control of a vehicle.
PERSON: An individual, assumed name entity, proprietorship, partnership, joint
venture, association, corporation, or other legal entity.
TOW TRUCK: A vehicle designed to be used primarily for removing wrecked or
disabled vehicles from any street.
TOW TRUCK ROTATION LIST: A list of qualified licensed tow companies maintained
by dispatch and which is used to determine the priority of the tow truck to be
dispatched to the scene of a law enforcement tow.
WRECKED VEHICLE: A vehicle that has been damaged as the result of overturning
or colliding with another vehicle or object so as to reasonably necessitate
that the vehicle be removed by a tow truck. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-2: DRIVING TOW TRUCK TO SCENE OF ACCIDENT PROHIBITED UNLESS CALLED BY
DISPATCH:
No person may knowingly drive a tow truck, licensed or unlicensed, to the scene
of any accident in Ada County unless the tow truck has been called to the scene
by dispatch. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-3: SOLICITING TOW BUSINESS AT SCENE OF LAW ENFORCEMENT TOW PROHIBITED:
No person may solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly, at the scene of a
law enforcement tow in Ada County, the business of towing, removing, repairing,
wrecking, storing, trading, or purchasing a vehicle. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-4: RESPONSE TO CERTAIN PRIVATE CALLS FOR TOWING SERVICES PROHIBITED:
A tow truck shall not knowingly respond to a private request for towing service
within the County when an accident is involved. A tow truck may respond to a
private request for towing service to a disabled vehicle not involved in an
accident, or to a private request for other towing services not requiring the
involvement of a law enforcement agency; provided, however, if, upon arrival on
the scene, a licensee discovers an accident is involved, the licensee shall
immediately notify dispatch. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-5: CERTAIN REMUNERATION OR CONSIDERATION PROHIBITED:
Emergency tow companies are prohibited from soliciting or accepting any
remuneration or consideration of any type from any repair shop, garage or other
repair facility given for the purpose of influencing such emergency tow
company's decision as to where a disabled or wrecked vehicle should be taken
for repair. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that any such remuneration or
consideration was given for the purpose of influencing said decision. (Ord.
453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-6: DISPATCH:
If a law enforcement officer determines a tow truck is needed at the scene of a
law enforcement tow for a wrecked or disabled vehicle, dispatch shall call
either the towing service, whether licensed or unlicensed, indicated to the law
enforcement officer by the express preference of the owner, or, if the owner
does not of his or her own initiative expressly request a particular towing
service, the next available emergency tow company on the tow truck rotation
list. Dispatch shall indicate to the emergency tow company the color, year,
make, body and general condition of the vehicle to be towed. Based on the
information provided, the tow company shall provide all necessary towing
equipment. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-7: LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Tow truck companies licensed to perform law enforcement towing are
responsible for wrecked and disabled vehicles and the contents therein, from
the time of on-scene pickup until the vehicle is removed from licensee's
premises or is otherwise released from licensee's custody and control. Any
damage or loss to said vehicle or contents while in the custody and control of
licensee is the sole responsibility of licensee, and Ada County assumes no
liability for any such loss or damage.
   B.   A licensee, when operating under a license granted by Ada County or the
Ada County Sheriff's Office shall not engage in any unfair method of
competition, unconscionable acts or practices, or illegal acts or practices in
the conduct of towing services; and licensee will conduct its towing and/or
storage services in such a way that its actions will not reflect unfavorably on
Ada County or the Ada County Sheriff's Office. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002; amd. Ord.
868, 6-13-2017)
6-4-8: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXPIRATION DATE; LOCATION:
   A.   No person may provide law enforcement towing inside the County without
first obtaining a law enforcement towing license. The license issued to an
emergency tow company authorizes the licensee and all its bona fide employees
to engage in dispatched law enforcement towing from the tow truck rotation
list. Only one license may be issued to each emergency tow company owner, and a
tow company owner can have no more than one tow company on the tow truck
rotation list at any point in time. Licensed tow companies may not subcontract
with other towing agencies, licensed or unlicensed, for the provision of law
enforcement towing services. Applications for law enforcement towing licenses
may be obtained at the Ada County Sheriff's Office beginning on May 1 of each
year, and all completed applications must be received by the Ada County Sheriff
no later than May 31 of each year. Applications which have not been completed
will not be accepted. Tow service inspections for the upcoming licensing year
shall be conducted by the Ada County Sheriff's Office during June of each year.
All such licenses shall expire on June 30 of the following calendar year.
   B.   Licensees shall maintain a permanent and established place of business
within Ada County, and shall promptly notify the Ada County Sheriff of any
change of address. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002; amd. Ord. 896, 5-21-2019)
6-4-9: LICENSE APPLICATION; INSPECTIONS; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: A person desiring to obtain an Ada County law
enforcement towing license shall lodge with the Ada County Sheriff a written
application upon a form provided for that purpose, which must be signed by the
applicant or his authorized agent. The following information shall be required
in the application:
      1.   Owner name, address to which all official correspondence may be
sent, telephone number and signature.
      2.   Company name, address and telephone number.
      3.   Number and types of tow trucks to be operated.
      4.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant wishes to participate
in the tow truck rotation list.
      5.   A copy of the applicant's public liability insurance policy.
      6.   A description of the applicant's impound yard and its location.
   B.   Inspections: Upon the lodging of the application, the Impound Officer
shall direct the applicant to appear for an inspection of the tow truck(s) at a
time and place to be determined by the Impound Officer. The Impound Officer
shall conduct an inspection of the tow truck(s) and the business premises of
the applicant, as necessary, to determine if each tow truck and emergency tow
company complies with this chapter.
   C.   Action On Application: The Impound Officer may, at any time, in his or
her discretion, require additional information from an applicant to clarify
items on the application. Failure to cooperate with the Impound Officer's
request for additional information may result in the denial of a license. Upon
completion of the processing of the application, the Impound Officer shall
forward the application and the Impound Officer's recommendation to the Sheriff
for action thereon.
   D.   Issuance: The Sheriff shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of an
application for a law enforcement towing license, either approve or deny said
application. The Sheriff shall issue a law enforcement towing license if the
Sheriff finds that the emergency tow company meets the requirements of this
chapter. The Sheriff shall refuse to issue or reissue a license if the Sheriff
finds that the emergency tow company does not meet the requirements of this
chapter. Upon issuance of a license, the tow company owner shall be provided
inspection stickers for each vehicle which passes the required inspection.
Annual inspection stickers must be displayed on the driver's side windshield of
each licensed tow truck. If at any time during the license year, an emergency
tow company violates the requirements of this chapter, the license may be
suspended or revoked in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-10: RANDOM INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSIONS; REVOCATIONS; HEARINGS:
   A.   Inspections: Any Ada County Sheriff's Deputy or the Impound Officer is
authorized to conduct random equipment and safety inspections of any tow truck
company licensed to conduct law enforcement tows.
   B.   Authorization: The Ada County Sheriff or his/her designee is authorized
to deny, suspend or revoke any license to engage in law enforcement towing; tow
truck operators and/or owners are subject to denial, suspension or revocation
when it appears that a licensee or operator/owner has violated the provisions
and/or the intent of this chapter as follows:
      1.   Violations And Temporary Suspensions: A violation of subsections B1a
through B1n of this section shall cause the impound officer to issue an
immediate temporary suspension from the tow truck rotation list for a period
not to exceed thirty (30) days. A second violation of subsections B1a through
B1n of this section within one hundred eighty (180) days of the previous
suspension shall cause the impound officer to make a recommendation to the
Sheriff or his/her designee for a license revocation or suspension of more than
thirty (30) days of licensee's law enforcement tow license:
         a.   Failure to notify dispatch that tow company's on-scene arrival
time will exceed thirty (30) minutes.
         b.   Failure to have the required equipment for each operating tow
truck and to have such equipment in good operating condition.
         c.   Use of magnetic stripping/signage on tow trucks.
         d.   Charging tow customers in excess of the tow rates established by
the Ada County Board of Commissioners for law enforcement tows.
         e.   Subcontracting law enforcement tows through other tow companies,
licensed or unlicensed.
         f.   Failure to respond to a dispatch request for a law enforcement
tow more than two (2) times in any calendar month.
         g.   Driving a tow truck to the scene of an accident without having
been requested to the scene by dispatch.
         h.   The solicitation of tow truck business by any licensee or
employee or agent of licensee at the scene of a law enforcement tow.
         i.   The failure to report an accident to dispatch for which a law
enforcement tow is required.
         j.   The solicitation or accepting of any remuneration or
consideration of any type by any licensee, employee or agent of a licensee,
from any garage, or repair shop or facility, for the purpose of influencing
such licensee's decision as to where a disabled or wrecked vehicle should be
taken for repair.
         k.   Allowing the lapse or cancellation of the tow business insurance
required by this chapter.
         l.   Failing to allow a titled or registered owner of a vehicle to
retrieve their personal property from their own vehicle while inside the
impound lot.
         m.   Any unfair, illegal or deceptive business practice or any other
conduct that the licensee knows or reasonably should know will reflect
unfavorably on Ada County or the Ada County Sheriff's Office.
         n.   Failure to comply with the requirements of sections
6-4-11 and/or
6-4-13 of this chapter.
   C.   Notice Of Intent: Within ten (10) days of the impound officer's
recommendation for a license revocation or a suspension of more than thirty
(30) days, if the Sheriff or his designee finds good cause that a violation has
occurred, the Sheriff shall issue a notice of intent to suspend or revoke a law
enforcement towing license. Said notice shall provide a general description of
the alleged violation(s) and the date(s) of the alleged violations. Depending
on the nature and extent of the violation(s), the Sheriff, in his sole
discretion, may permit licensee to resume law enforcement towing pending any
hearing on the matter.
   D.   Right To hearing: A licensee shall have the right to a hearing prior to
the revocation or suspension of more than thirty (30) days of its law
enforcement towing license, in accordance with the procedures set forth in
subsection E of this section. If the licensee does not request a hearing, or
does not follow the procedures for requesting a hearing, said decision to
suspend or revoke the license shall be final, and shall be effective fifteen
(15) days from the date of the notice of intent. Any suspension shall be for a
length of time as determined by the Sheriff, and any revocation shall be for
one calendar year from the date of the notice of intent.
   E.   Hearing Procedures: A licensee may request a hearing before the Sheriff
or his designee prior to the suspension for more than thirty (30) days or
revocation of a law enforcement towing license, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section.
      1.   A licensee desiring such a hearing shall, within fifteen (15) days
of the date of the notice of intent to suspend or revoke a law enforcement
towing license, file a written request for hearing with the Ada County Sheriff,
together with a statement setting forth the factual basis and reasons for
licensee's appeal of the decision. A copy of the request for hearing shall also
be delivered to the impound officer.
      2.   The Sheriff or his designee shall conduct an informal public hearing
within thirty (30) days after a request for hearing has been filed. The
licensee and the Sheriff may be represented by an attorney. The licensee will
be afforded the opportunity to present evidence and testimony. The licensee
shall have no right to cross-examine or confront witnesses, except in the
discretion of the Sheriff, nor shall the Idaho Rules of Evidence apply to such
hearings. In the Sheriff's discretion, the record of any such hearing may be
held open for a period of time, not to exceed seven (7) days, for the receipt
of additional evidence.
      3.   The Sheriff or his designee shall issue a written decision within
ten (10) days after the hearing stating the final decision regarding suspension
or revocation of the license. If a license is revoked, it is revoked for one
calendar year from the date of the written decision. A copy of the decision
shall be mailed or made available to all interested parties. A record of said
hearing and decision shall remain in the custody of the Sheriff. (Ord. 453, 5-
21-2002; amd. Ord. 868, 6-13-2017)
6-4-11: TOW TRUCK SPECIFICATIONS AND CAPABILITIES:
   A.   Compliance: Each emergency tow company shall comply with all safety
provisions, rules and regulations required to be observed by motor carriers,
and, in addition thereto, shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Equipment: Each tow truck shall be equipped with only those winches and
booms that have been produced and constructed by a manufacturer of such
equipment that regularly produces winches and tow equipment of guaranteed
quality and be used with the size tow truck for the class for which the
equipment is designed. All related equipment shall be commensurate with the
total rating of booms or other towing devices. A winch or boom will not be
prohibited by this chapter if the owner submits to the Ada County sheriff a
verified statement from a reputable testing laboratory regularly engaged in the
testing of such equipment or similar equipment certifying that the capacity of
the winch or boom is not less than that mandated for the class for which the
equipment will be used. All costs of such testing and certification shall be at
the expense of the emergency tow company.
   C.   Classes Of Tow Trucks: Each emergency tow company shall operate and
maintain a minimum of one class A, class B, class C or class D tow truck, as
described below:
      1.   Class A Tow Trucks: Tow trucks that are capable of towing and/or
recovery of passenger cars, pickup trucks, small trailers, or equivalent
vehicles. Class A tow trucks shall have:
         a.   Weight Rating: A minimum manufacturer's gross vehicle weight
rating of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or equivalent.
         b.   Boom Rating:
            (1)   Minimum: A minimum of four (4) ton boom rating with single or
dual booms. A minimum capacity of not less than four (4) tons, single line pull
is required.
            (2)   Exception: Tow trucks that are equipped for and used as
"wheel lift" tow trucks shall have a minimum three thousand (3,000) pound
manufacturer's lift rated and minimum seven thousand (7,000) pound tow rated
wheel lift assembly.
         c.   Cables: A minimum three-eighths inch (3/8") continuous length
cable, as described below, or its equivalent, in safe working condition on each
drum.
            (1)   Each cable shall be capable of being fully extended from and
fully wound onto its drum.
            (2)   All cable and/or wire ropes shall be in good working order
and shall have:
               (A)   No more than six (6) randomly distributed broken wires in
one rope lay or no more than three (3) broken wires in one strand on one rope
lay;
               (B)   No evidence of heat damage from any cause;
               (C)   No cables with indication of being pinched or crushed; and
               (D)   End attachments that are not cracked, deformed, worn or
loosened.
            (3)   Cable end connections shall be wedged or, if clamped, shall
have a minimum of three (3) clamps spaced a minimum of six (6) rope diameters
apart and attached with the base or saddle of the clamp against the longer or
live end of the cable. The "U" bolt will be placed over the short or dead end
of the rope and will be of the proper size for the cable being clamped.
      2.   Class B Tow Trucks: Tow trucks that are capable of towing and/or
recovery of medium size trucks, trailers, motor homes or equivalent vehicles.
Class B tow trucks shall have:
         a.   A minimum manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of seventeen
thousand (17,000) pounds or equivalent.
         b.   A minimum of ten (10) ton boom rating, single or dual booms, and
a single or dual winch with a minimum capacity of not less than ten (10) tons
single line pull.
         c.   A minimum seven-sixteenths inch (7/16") cable in safe operating
condition as described in subsection C1c of this section.
      3.   Class C Tow Trucks: Tow trucks that are capable of towing and/or
recovery of large trucks, trailers, buses, motor homes or similar vehicles.
Class C tow trucks shall have:
         a.   A minimum manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of forty
thousand (40,000) pounds or equivalent.
         b.   A minimum twenty five (25) ton rated single or dual boom and
winch.
         c.   A truck chassis with tandem drive axles.
         d.   Air brakes and system capable of supplying air to towed vehicles.
         e.   A minimum nine-sixteenths inch (9/16") cable on each drum in safe
operating condition as described in subsection C1c of this section.
      4.   Class D Tow Trucks: Tow trucks that are designed and intended to
transport other vehicles by loading the vehicle entirely onto the truck. These
tow trucks may be of a flatbed or roll bed design or may be a rail type truck.
Class D tow trucks shall have:
         a.   A minimum manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of nine
thousand (9,000) pounds or equivalent.
         b.   Dual tires on the rear axle.
         c.   A car carrier bed with a minimum length of sixteen feet (16') and
a load rating of four (4) tons.
         d.   One winch drum and cable in safe operating condition as described
in subsection C1c of this section, and a minimum length of not less than twenty
six feet (26').
   D.   Specifications:
      1.   Each tow truck whether class A, class B, class C or class D, shall
be not less than one ton in size and shall be equipped as follows:
         a.   Heavy duty transmission;
         b.   Dual rear wheels;
         c.   Power assisted brakes constructed so as to lock and hold drive
wheels, unless ABS equipped;
         d.   Revolving or strobe overhead amber and/or red emergency lights
with three hundred sixty degree (360°) visibility. White emergency lights may
be used in conjunction with amber and/or red lights. These emergency lights
shall be used while a tow truck is standing on a roadway for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in the preparation for and transportation of a
disabled or wrecked vehicle;
         e.   Spotlights mounted behind cab capable of lighting scene of
disability; and
      2.   Each tow truck shall carry as standard equipment:
         a.   One towbar cradle, sling or other comparable device made of
material and used in such a manner so as to protect vehicles being towed;
         b.   Towing dollies or other auxiliary devices, provided that such
auxiliary devices are specifically designed for the towing or transporting of a
vehicle for which the auxiliary devices are used. No auxiliary devices shall be
used unless to prevent further mechanical damages to the vehicle being towed,
and unless the nature of existing vehicle damage prohibits movement otherwise.
No auxiliary devices shall be used when such use could jeopardize the safety of
the public;
         c.   At least two (2) safety securing devices, which may be chain,
cable, nylon strap or steel strap, with a minimum breaking strength of fifteen
thousand (15,000) pounds;
         d.   One fire extinguisher having a minimum capacity of five (5)
pounds ABC dry chemical;
         e.   A four foot (4') wrecking bar, three-fourths inch (3/4") in
diameter;
         f.   Broom, a minimum of twelve inches (12") wide and four feet (4')
long;
         g.   Shovel, a minimum of seven inches (7") wide and three feet (3')
long;
         h.   Two (2) red flags, and six (6) 20-minute fuses;
         i.   Jumper cables;
         j.   Five (5) gallon bucket of sand or absorbent material;
         k.   A minimum of six (6) traffic cones or triangles with a height of
not less than eighteen inches (18");
         l.   Magnetic or plastic base portable tail, stop and turn signal
lights for the vehicle being towed;
         m.   A two-way radio or the ability to communicate with the office or
answering service; and
         n.   A minimum of two (2) chocks or blocking devices that are capable
of chaining to the tow truck, securely holding the tow truck while the truck is
recovering a disabled or wrecked vehicle.
Exception: Class D tow trucks may have one chock or blocking device.
      3.   Each tow truck and all of its equipment shall be maintained in a
safe and good working order at all times. Law enforcement tow truck operators,
within one year of employment with any licensed law enforcement towing company,
must receive a nationally recognized operator's certification of training.
      4.   Each tow truck shall be permanently painted and lettered with
company colors and company names, address, city and telephone number, on both
sides of the tow truck, within a reasonable time after purchase. Said company
colors shall be provided to the Ada County Sheriff. No magnetic stripping and/
or signs may be used.
   E.   Requirements To Receive Dispatch Calls: Those emergency tow companies
wishing to receive dispatch calls for a heavy duty tow truck must comply with
the requirements of this chapter, and in addition:
      1.   Each heavy duty tow truck must be not less than five (5) tons in
size.
      2.   Each heavy duty tow truck shall be equipped with a power operated
winch, winch line, and boom, with a factory rated lifting capacity or a County
tested capacity of not less than thirty thousand (30,000) pounds, single or
double line.
      3.   Each heavy duty tow truck must be equipped with portable air lines
for towed vehicles.
      4.   Each heavy duty tow truck must be equipped with tandem drive rear
wheels. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-12: FEES FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT TOWING:
Fees for services provided by licensed emergency tow companies pursuant to this
chapter shall be set by resolution of the Board of Ada County Commissioners.
(Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-13: REQUIREMENTS AND OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR EMERGENCY TOW COMPANIES:
Tow companies licensed to perform law enforcement tows must:
   A.   Maintain twenty four (24) hour towing service, available seven (7) days
per week, with the dispatch of such service to be from base stations or an
answering service.
   B.   Not refuse to provide a law enforcement tow more than two (2) times in
any calendar month.
   C.   Arrive at the accident within a reasonable time after having been
notified to do so by dispatch. Such response time shall not exceed thirty (30)
minutes. To the extent the tow company is unable to respond within thirty (30)
minutes, tow company must notify dispatch of its estimated arrival time.
   D.   Maintain its own separate locked, lighted and secured impound lot
bordered by a chain link, steel, or concrete fence not less than six feet (6')
in height; provided further that said lot shall be insured for fire, theft, and
vandalism of the vehicles stored therein and further, shall be open for
business not less than from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. during business days. An agent of the emergency tow company must be on the
premises to conduct the business of the tow company during the above stated
days and hours.
   E.   The Ada County Sheriff's Office shall conduct an inventory of all items
contained in or on an impounded vehicle to be towed, on a form provided by the
Ada County Sheriff; the completion of said inventory form to be witnessed and
initialed by a tow company driver on the scene. All items inventoried which are
not taken to sheriff's property, shall remain in the custody and control of the
licensee until released to the owner. If any item(s) is of an estimated value
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more, and cannot be secured in the vehicle,
the property shall be taken to sheriff's property and a property invoice left
in the vehicle or given to the vehicle owner, if the owner is available, at the
time the vehicle is impounded.
   F.   When authorized by the law enforcement agency, deliver, in every
instance, the wrecked or disabled vehicle to either a location of the owner's
choice or the tow company's impound lot. An itemized statement of charges shall
be provided to the vehicle owner upon request.
   G.   All licensees who engage in law enforcement towing shall accept cash
and at least two (2) major credit cards and any debit card for any towing and/
or storage fees related to a law enforcement tow. Upon request, the licensee or
its agent will provide a receipt to the owner or operator of the towed motor
vehicle.
   H.   Report to the impound officer immediately all changes in tow trucks and
equipment used in the licensee's law enforcement towing service and make all
additional vehicles and equipment available for inspection by the impound
officer. A tow truck which has not been inspected and given an inspection
sticker by the impound officer is not allowed to participate in the tow truck
rotation list.
   I.   Before leaving the site of an accident, completely remove all resulting
wreckage or debris, including all broken glass.
   J.   Maintain two-way communications on a twenty four (24) hour basis with
the company's tow trucks.
   K.   Meet the following insurance requirements:
      1.   At their sole expense, tow companies shall procure and maintain in
full force and effect, insurance written by an insurance company or companies
with Best's rating(s), of A VIII or better. All insurance companies must be
authorized to do business in the State of Idaho. By requiring insurance herein,
Ada County does not represent that coverage and/or limits are necessarily
adequate to protect the tow company, and such coverage and/or limits shall not
be deemed as a limitation on the tow company's liability under the indemnities
granted to Ada County through this license.
      2.   Certificates of insurance evidencing the coverages required herein
shall be provided to Ada County prior to performing any towing services for Ada
County. All certificates must be signed by an authorized representative of the
tow company's insurance carrier and must state that the issuing company, its
agents, or representatives will provide Ada County thirty (30) days' written
notice prior to any policies being canceled. Renewal certificates must be
provided to Ada County within thirty (30) days after the effective date of the
renewal.
      3.   Certificates shall be mailed to:
         Ada County Risk Management
         200 W. Front Street 3rd Floor Room 3269
         Boise, Idaho 83702-7300
      4.   Certificates must evidence the following minimum coverages:
         a.   Workers' compensation insurance meeting the statutory
requirements of the State of Idaho.
         b.   Employers' liability insurance providing limits of liability in
the following amounts:
 
Bodily injury by accident $100,000.00 each accident
Bodily injury by disease  $500,000.00 policy limit
Bodily injury by disease  $100,000.00 each employee
         c.   Garage liability insurance providing limits of liability in the
following amounts:
 
Auto only - each accident            $1,000,000.00
Other than auto only - each accident 1,000,000.00
Other than auto only - aggregate     3,000,000.00
The garage liability policy shall be written on a standard ISO policy form, or
an equivalent form, providing coverage for liability arising from garage
operations including premises, operations, completed operations, personal
injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract
(including tort liability of another assumed in a contract). Auto coverage must
show symbols 27, 28, and 29 or a separate business automobile liability policy
also must be purchased.
Alternatively, tow companies may produce a certificate of insurance evidencing
commercial general liability insurance providing limits of liability in the
following amounts:
 
General aggregate                         $2,000,000.00
Product/completed operations aggregate    2,000,000.00
Personal and advertising injury liability 1,000,000.00
Per occurrence                            1,000,000.00
Fire legal liability                      50,000.00
The commercial general liability ("CGL") insurance policy shall be written on
an "occurrence" form and shall cover liability arising from premises,
operations, independent contractors, products, completed operations, personal
injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract
(including tort liability of another assumed in a contract).
         d.   Business automobile liability insurance (required only if symbols
27, 28, and 29 are not shown for garage liability) providing bodily injury and
property damage liability coverage for not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) each accident limit. Business automobile liability insurance
shall be written on a standard ISO policy form, or an equivalent form,
providing coverage for liability arising out of owned, hired, or nonowned
vehicles in connection with this agreement.
         e.   Garage keeper's liability insurance providing legal liability
coverage, including comprehensive and collision, of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per location for customers' autos or auto
equipment while the licensee is attending, servicing, repairing, parking or
storing the customer's auto or auto equipment.
         f.   On hook/cargo insurance providing coverage for customers' autos
while being towed or transported by the tow company with limits in the
following amounts:
 
Light or medium duty truck $ 50,000.00
Heavy duty truck           100,000.00
Extra heavy duty truck     250,000.00
      5.   Ada County and its elected officials, agents, employees, successors
and assigns shall be named as additional insureds under all policies except
workers' compensation and employers' liability.
   L.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as obligating the emergency
tow company to transport a disabled or wrecked vehicle when weather or road
conditions make it impractical, impossible or dangerous to the operator. (Ord.
453, 5-21-2002; amd. Ord. 497, 4-29-2003; amd. Ord. 868, 6-13-2017)
6-4-14: USE AS EMERGENCY VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit operation of a tow truck
as an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002)
6-4-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of sections
6-4-2,
6-4-3 and/or
6-4-4 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided by Idaho Code, section 18-113
as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled. (Ord. 453, 5-21-2002;
amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL PARKING
SECTION:
6-5-1: Short Title And Purpose
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Parking Of Vehicles In Residential Areas
6-5-4: Exceptions
6-5-5: Penalties
6-5-6: Enforcement
6-5-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY RESIDENTIAL PARKING
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate parking of certain
vehicles, both motorized and unmotorized, on streets in unincorporated
residential areas within Ada County. (Ord. 796, 4-24-2012)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
words and phrases not defined in this chapter shall be given their ordinary,
commonly understood and accepted meanings.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Includes, but is not limited to, the following specific
vehicles:
   Camper: A separate vehicle designed for human habitation and which can be
attached or detached from a pickup truck. When removed from the truck, campers
are called "unmounted campers". These campers are sometimes referred to as
"truck campers" and "overhead campers". Camper shells on pickup trucks are
excluded from this definition.
   Camping Trailer: A type of trailer or trailer coach, the walls of which are
so constructed as to be collapsible and made out of either canvas or similar
cloth, or some form of rigid material such as fiberglass, plastic or metal. The
walls are collapsed while the recreational vehicle is being towed or stored and
are raised or unfolded when the vehicle becomes temporary living quarters and
is not being moved.
   Motor Home: A motorized vehicle that has a truck or motor van chassis
primarily designed to provide temporary living quarters for travel, camping,
recreation and vacation use.
   Travel Trailer: A trailer without its own motive power, designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreation and vacation use. This
definition includes fifth wheelers.
   Utility Trailer: A trailer without its own motive power designed and/or used
for the transportation of animals, goods, material, aircraft, watercraft and
all manner of motor vehicles.
   Watercraft: A general term applying to all manner of watercraft, whether
impelled by wind, oars or mechanical devices, and which are designed primarily
for recreation or vacation use. A watercraft when mounted upon a trailer shall
be considered one unit.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Two (2) or more adjoining lots or parcels of one acre or less
in area which are improved with single-family residences, duplexes, triplexes,
or any other structure housing families or individuals together with adjacent
streets for a distance of one hundred (100) yards in each direction along said
street measured from the boundary line of the property improved with said
residential structure or structures, the boundary line from which the one
hundred (100) yard distance is measured being that boundary line which will
maximize the area to be included in this definition of "residential area".
VEHICLE: Every device in which any person or property is or may be transported,
either on or off the public roadway. (Ord. 796, 4-24-2012)
6-5-3: PARKING OF VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
   A.   No person shall park the following, whether attended or unattended,
upon the streets in any residential area within unincorporated Ada County for a
period in excess of two (2) hours:
      1.   Any vehicle, either motorized or unmotorized, having a gross weight
capacity in excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds, or
      2.   Any trailer or mobile home regardless of type, or
      3.   Any vehicle designed or used primarily as farm equipment, or
      4.   Any recreational vehicle:
         a.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, motor
homes, travel trailers and camp trailers may be parked on the street for a
period not to exceed seventy two (72) hours;
         b.   The seventy two (72) hour period applies irrespective of whether
they are attached to a motorized vehicle.
   B.   No person shall park any vehicle upon the streets in any residential
area within unincorporated Ada County for a continuous period in excess of
seven (7) days. (Ord. 796, 4-24-2012)
6-5-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of section
6-5-3 of this chapter shall not apply when a vehicle is parked:
   A.   For the purpose of loading or unloading passengers, materials, or
merchandise when such passengers, materials, or merchandise are actually being
loaded or unloaded;
   B.   For any purpose incident to any lawful construction project located
within the immediate vicinity of such parked vehicle;
   C.   For any purpose incident to a lawful commercial operation located in
any residential area so long as the vehicle is parked within one hundred (100)
yards of such commercial operation. (Ord. 796, 4-24-2012)
6-5-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for each violation. If an owner or operator parks more than one
vehicle in violation of this chapter, each vehicle shall be deemed a separate
violation. Should any vehicle be parked in violation of subsection 6-5-3A of
this chapter for a period longer than twenty four (24) hours, each twenty four
(24) hour period, or part thereof, shall be deemed a separate violation. Should
any vehicle be parked in violation of subsection 6-5-3B of this chapter, each
seven (7) day period, or part thereof, shall be deemed a separate violation.
Any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter may be cited and/or removed at
the expense of the owner. (Ord. 796, 4-24-2012)
6-5-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The sheriff or deputy sheriffs of Ada County shall have authority to enforce
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 796, 4-24-2012)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE ESCORT SERVICE
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Business License Required
6-6-3: Individual License Required
6-6-4: Persons Ineligible for License
6-6-5: Issuance of Licenses
6-6-6: Limitations
6-6-7: Driving Through Procession Prohibited
6-6-8: Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Procession
6-6-9: Funeral Processions to be Identified
6-6-10: Direction of Traffic Permitted
6-6-11: Penalties
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles operated by a fire depart ment or law enforcement
agency of the State or political sub division of the State or an ambulance.
6-6-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business or occupation of vehicle escort service
unless or until obtaining a license so to do. Applications for an escort
license shall be filed with the County Clerk. The application shall show:
   A.   The names, ages, and addresses of all persons having an interest in
said business.
   B.   The present and previous occupations covering a period of three (3)
years of all persons having an interest in the business.
   C.   The name and address of the business.
   D.   Payment of a fee in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00).
   E.   An applicant who was not licensed by this Chapter for the year
immediately preceding the current application shall be required to be
fingerprinted by an appropriate agency designated by the County Clerk. Cost of
taking and processing such fingerprints shall be borne by the applicant.
6-6-3: INDIVIDUAL LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall be engaged as, or shall perform the services of, a vehicle
escort unless or until he/she obtains a license so to do. Applications for such
license shall be filed with the County Clerk. The application shall show:
   A.   Name, age, and resident address of the applicant.
   B.   Present and previous occupation covering a period of three (3) years
prior to the date of application.
   C.   The number of years the applicant has operated a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, or both.
   D.   Whether the applicant owns or possesses a motor vehicle or motorcycle,
and the make, identification number, model, and year of either or both.
   E.   The recommendations of at least three (3) reputable individuals
recommending that such license be granted.
   F.   Valid Idaho driver license.
   G.   Payment of a fee in the amount twenty dollars ($20.00).
   H.   An applicant who was not licensed by this Chapter for the year
immediately preceding the current application shall be required to be
fingerprinted by an appropriate agency designated by the County Clerk. Cost of
taking and processing such fingerprints shall be borne by the applicant.
6-6-4: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to any person to act as a vehicle escort who:
   A.   Is not over eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Has not resided within the State for a continuous period of at least
six (6) months preceding the date of application.
   C.   Has been convicted in any court within a period of three (3) years of
an offense of driving while under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
reckless driving, failing to stop at or report an accident, or any felony.
6-6-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners shall duly consider and evaluate all
new applications and renewal applications for escort licenses for businesses
and individuals, and after so evaluating, shall determine to grant or deny each
application in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   If the Board of County Commissioners so order, the County Clerk shall
issue a license for a vehicle escort business or individual and it shall
contain the name of the business or individual and year for which issued. The
license for an escort business shall be in the form of a placard or
certificate. The license for a vehicle escort individual shall be in the shape
of a badge.
   C.   The licenses herein provided shall be issued for a calendar year and
may be renewed by the Board of County Commissioners after consideration and
upon payment of the license fees provided herein. (Ord. 220, 5-17-90)
   D.   If the Board of County Commissioners shall find that a licensee has
made any false material statements in the application for a license, or did not
have, or has not retained, the qualifications for vehicle escort, or has
acquired a disqualification for vehicle escort or for other good cause, the
Board of County Commissioners shall suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew such
escort license.
      1.   No pleadings shall be necessary and any hearing before the Board of
County Commissioners shall be informal.
      2.   Prior to any revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be granted
the opportunity for a public hearing before the Board of County Commissioners
which hearing shall be held not later than fourteen (14) days after written
notice to the licensee of intent to revoke or suspend. Such notice shall
specify the date, time and place of hearing and shall be delivered to the
licensee personally or mailed to the licensee at the address set forth in the
license application. If, after such public hearing, the County Commissioners
determine that one or more of the grounds for revocation exists, they shall
revoke the license. The decision of the Board of County Commissioners shall be
final. (Ord. 220, 5-17-90; amd. Ord. 221, 5-17-90)
   E.   No license may be transferred to another person, unless the transferee
shall have first obtained the approval of the Board of County Commissioners to
the transfer upon application by the transferee pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter. The fee for such a transfer of a license shall be twenty dollars
($20.00). (Ord. 243, 3-30-92)
6-6-6: LIMITATIONS:
Any license issued hereunder shall limit the licensee to provide vehicle escort
service for, and to escort, funeral or other processions, parades, and moving
buildings, structures or equipment.
6-6-7: DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSION PROHIBITED:
No driver of any vehicle shall drive such vehicle between vehicles comprising a
funeral procession while such procession is en route if the vehicles comprising
the funeral procession are designated and escorted as provided by this Chapter.
This Section shall not apply to drivers of emergency vehicles.
6-6-8: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF PROCESSION:
Upon the immediate approach of a funeral procession, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right of way and immediately drive to a position
parallel to, and as close as possible to, the nearest edge or curb of the
highway lawful for parking and clear of any intersection and stop and remain in
that position until the funeral procession has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or escort officer. (Ord. 220, 5-17-90)
6-6-9: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED:
Each motor vehicle participating in a funeral procession shall display
illuminated headlights and shall follow not to exceed thirty feet (30') behind
the preceding vehicle, and when accompanied by police escort or escort service
shall have the right of way at street intersections over other vehicles, except
authorized emergency vehicles. (Ord. 220, 5-17-90; amd. Ord. 221, 5-17-90)
6-6-10: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC PERMITTED:
Persons holding a license and while engaged in vehicle escort services, are
authorized to direct traffic in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter
and the statutes of the State, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail
or refuse to comply with any order, signal, or direction of an escort while so
engaged.
6-6-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided by Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended
and/or retitled. (Ord. 220, 5-17-1990; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE LANE
SECTION:
6-7-1: Parking In Fire Lane
6-7-2: Fire Lane Defined
6-7-3: Leaving Vehicle In Fire Lane
6-7-4: Enforcement And Penalties
6-7-1: PARKING IN FIRE LANE:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY
FIRE LANE PARKING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Policy: It shall be the policy of the county that business enterprises
which choose to designate fire lane access to their premises, as defined below,
shall be provided enforcement action against those persons who park or leave
unattended vehicles in designated fire lanes. This action is necessary and
desirable to assure that access is available to emergency service providers.
(Ord. 235, 3-28-1991)
6-7-2: FIRE LANE DEFINED:
A "fire lane" shall be an area adjacent to a business on private property which
is clearly marked with a red curb with appropriate signs located at each end of
the curb or at one hundred foot (100') intervals, whichever is less, and
designating the area to be a fire lane. (Ord. 235, 3-28-1991)
6-7-3: LEAVING VEHICLE IN FIRE LANE:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for the registered owner
or operator of any vehicle to park or leave it unattended in a designated fire
lane. A vehicle shall be deemed unattended if it does not contain a licensed
responsible driver who is in control of the vehicle. (Ord. 235, 3-28-1991)
6-7-4: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the sheriff of Ada County, or any deputy
sheriff, to leave notice at or on the vehicle parked in violation of this
chapter. This notice shall bear the date and hour of leaving the same at or
upon the vehicle. The notice shall instruct the owner or operator of the
vehicle to report to the magistrate's division of the district court in regard
to such violation. It shall be the duty of such sheriff or deputy sheriff to
leave at or upon such vehicle a separate notice for each hour thereafter that
such vehicle remains parked in violation of this chapter. In the event such
owner or operator fails to report to the magistrate's division at the time
provided in said notice, a warrant for the arrest of said person will be
issued. In addition to the penalty assessed by the court for violation of this
chapter, the owner or operator of the vehicle shall be liable for any expense
incurred by the county involving towing away or otherwise removing said
vehicle. The owner or operator of any vehicle shall be liable for any and all
other reasonable expenses for storage charged by the company removing said
vehicle and causing said vehicle to be stored.
   B.   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable according
to section 18-113, Idaho Code as it may from time to time be amended and/or
retitled. Any vehicle found parked in violation of this chapter may be cited
and/or removed at the expense of the owner. (Ord. 235, 3-28-1991; amd. Ord.
603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 8
TRANSPORTATION OF UNCOVERED LOADS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Prohibition Against Uncovered Loads
6-8-2: Exceptions
6-8-3: Penalties
6-8-1: PROHIBITION AGAINST UNCOVERED LOADS:
   A.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle with any load on any public
roadway in Ada County unless such load is so covered, constructed or loaded as
to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise
escaping from the vehicle.
   B.   No person shall operate any vehicle with any load on any public roadway
in Ada County unless the load and its covering is securely fastened to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the public roadway.
   C.   Any person operating a vehicle on any public roadway in Ada County from
which any materials have fallen or escaped, which would constitute an
obstruction or injure a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel upon such public
roadway shall immediately cause the public roadway to be cleaned of all such
materials and shall pay any costs therefor.
   D.   This section shall not apply to vehicles on a public roadway, or a
portion thereof, that is closed to travel by the general public. However, prior
to the opening or reopening of the public roadway all materials that would
constitute an obstruction or injure a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel upon
such public roadway must be cleaned from the public roadway. (Ord. 700, 6-18-
2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
6-8-2: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter may be construed to prohibit a government
employee or contractor from dropping sand on a highway to enhance traction, or
sprinkling water or other substances to clean or maintain a highway.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to agricultural vehicles while being used
for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 700, 6-18-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
6-8-3: PENALTIES:
A person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). For each subsequent
violation of this chapter, the fine shall be increased by twenty five dollars
($25.00) but shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 700, 6-18-
2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
CHAPTER 9
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Unlawful Race Attendance
6-9-1: UNLAWFUL RACE ATTENDANCE:
   A.   Definitions:
    LOOKOUT: Any person who is at or near the location of the unlawful race,
speed competition, drag race, acceleration contest, or exhibition of speed and
whose conduct demonstrates that he or she is acting as a lookout to warn racers
or spectators of law enforcement's presence in the area.
   SPECTATOR: Any person whose conduct demonstrates that he or she is at or
near the location of the unlawful race, speed competition, drag race,
acceleration contest, or exhibition of speed to observe, support, witness,
promote, or encourage the event.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to be present in an area
where an unlawful race, speed competition, drag race, acceleration contest, or
exhibition of speed is occurring, has occurred, or is about to occur, and whose
conduct demonstrates the person is a spectator, or a lookout.
   C.   Penalties: Any person cited under this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as provided by Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may from
time to time be amended and/or retitled. (Ord. 878, 1-30-2018)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Established
7-1-2: Membership
7-1-3: Continuation Of Existing Membership
7-1-4: Disqualification
7-1-5: Procedures
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 103, 10-29-1980; Ord. 315, 7-16-1996; Ord.
  568, 12-6-2004; Ord. 830, 9-9-2014; Ord. 858, 12-13-2016.
7-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners hereby establishes the Building Board
of Appeals, to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations
made by the Ada County building official.
   B.   Members of the Building Board of Appeals shall serve without salary or
wage. (Ord. 869, 7-25-2017)
7-1-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The Building Board of Appeals shall consist of five (5) members
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners for a term of four (4) years.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint two (2) alternate
members who shall be called upon by the Building Board of Appeals Chairperson
to hear appeals during the absence of or disqualification of a member.
Alternate members shall possess the qualifications required for Building Board
of Appeals membership and shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years.
   C.   The qualifications of members shall be as follows:
      1.   Three (3) of the members shall be registered design professionals
with civil engineering, structural engineering, mechanical engineering,
geotechnical engineering or architectural experience; provided, however, that
no more than two (2) members will be chosen from the same profession.
      2.   One member shall be a general contractor with at least ten (10)
years' experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of
work.
      3.   One member of the Building Board of Appeals shall have one of the
following qualifications: studying for a degree in construction management plus
two (2) years practical construction experience; passed the Fundamentals of
Engineering (FE) examination in civil or mechanical engineering plus two (2)
years practical civil, structural, geotechnical, or mechanical engineering
experience; or possess an Architectural Associate (AA) degree plus two (2)
years practical architectural experience.
   D.   All subsequent vacancies will be filled by appointments for the
remainder of the terms.
   E.   A member must reside in Ada County during the entire term.
   F.   Members shall relinquish all voting rights upon the expiration of their
terms unless reappointed by the Board.
   G.   The building official shall be a nonvoting, ex officio member and act
as Secretary of the Building Board of Appeals. (Ord. 869, 7-25-2017)
7-1-3: CONTINUATION OF EXISTING MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The membership of the Building Board of Appeals shall continue to be
those members in office immediately preceding the enactment of this chapter.
The terms of such members shall continue until their previously designated
time. The enactment of this chapter shall have no effect on the business or
membership of the Building Board of Appeals. (Ord. 869, 7-25-2017)
7-1-4: DISQUALIFICATION:
   A.   Members may be recommended for removal to the Board of County
Commissioners by a majority vote of the Building Board of Appeals. Cause may
include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Excessive conflicts of interest or continued conflicts of interest
which interfere with the member's ability to perform his duties as interpreted
by the Board of County Commissioners.
      2.   False or misrepresenting statements by a member at the time of
application and appointment.
   B.   In the event that a member of the Building Board of Appeals does not
attend three (3) consecutive meetings, that person must submit an explanation
of the absences to both the Building Board of Appeals and the Board of County
Commissioners. The Building Board of Appeals or the Board of County
Commissioners, upon examination of the explanation, may require the immediate
resignation of that member for a high or inexcusable absentee rate. (Ord. 869,
7-25-2017)
7-1-5: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application For Appeal: Appeals of an order, decision or determination
made by the Ada County building official shall be filed with the Director of
the Ada County Development Services Department within fifteen (15) days after
the date of the order, decision or determination of the Ada County building
official, or it shall not be accepted. An application and fees, shall be
submitted to the Director on forms provided by the Ada County Development
Services Department.
   B.   Hearings: Hearings before the Building Board of Appeals shall be public
and shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth in title
1, chapter 14 of this Code.
   C.   Findings: The Building Board of Appeals shall make findings of fact and
conclusions of law in writing, stating the decision and the reasons for the
decision. The Building Board of Appeals shall sign and render all decisions and
findings in writing to the appropriate enforcement official and agency, the
appellant, and the building official within fifteen (15) days of the hearing.
   D.   Rules Of Order: The Building Board of Appeals shall adopt rules of
order that are consistent with the laws of the State of Idaho and this Code.
The Building Board of Appeals shall file its rules with the Ada County Recorder
and the Board of County Commissioners.
   E.   Minutes: The Building Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings and keep a record of its examinations, findings, decisions and all
other official actions.
   F.   Quorum: A simple majority of the voting members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum. The concurring vote of a majority of a quorum present
shall be necessary in order to make a decision on any issue before the Building
Board of Appeals. (Ord. 869, 7-25-2017)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Short Title And Purpose
7-2-2: Exceptions To Regulations
7-2-3: Adoption Of Codes
7-2-4: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Building Code
7-2-5: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Residential Code
7-2-6: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Mechanical Code
7-2-7: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Fuel Gas Code
7-2-8: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Energy Conservation Code
7-2-9: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Wildland-Urban Interface
Code
7-2-10: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Swimming Pool And Spa
Code
7-2-11: Ada County Amendments To The 2018 International Existing Building Code
7-2-12: Penalties
7-2-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY BUILDING CODE
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards and
requirements to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare, by
regulating and controlling, grading, quality and installation of materials,
use, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings, manufactured homes and
structures in the unincorporated areas of Ada County. (Ord. 396, 9-27-2000,
eff. 10-16-2000)
7-2-2: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
This chapter does not apply to agricultural buildings as defined in section
8-1A-1 of this Code. Such agricultural buildings shall not be a place of human
habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products are processed,
treated, packaged, sold, or a place used by the public. (Ord. 498, 3-25-2003)
7-2-3: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   The following codes, except as herein amended, are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein, and shall apply in the
unincorporated areas of Ada County. This chapter shall include rules and
regulations governing all grading and building activity, including: erection,
construction, enlargement, alterations, repair, moving, removal, conversion,
demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of
buildings or structures, and installation requirements for manufactured homes.
It shall be unlawful to engage in any grading or building activity without
complying with the rules and regulations as contained in this chapter and the
codes adopted herein. The following codes and portions thereof are on file in
the Office of the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, in accordance
with Idaho Code, section 31-715:
   International Building Code, 2018 edition. Published by the International
Code Council, Inc., and in addition the following appendices: appendix I Patio
Covers and appendix J Grading.
   International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition. Published by the
International Code Council, Inc.
   International Residential Code, 2018 edition. Published by the International
Code Council, Inc., parts I, II, III, IV, V, VI and IX and the following
appendices: appendix H Patio Covers.
   International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition. Published by the International
Code Council, Inc., and in addition the following appendices: appendix A
Combustion Air Openings and Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs.
   International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition. Published by the International
Code Council, Inc. and the following appendices: appendix A Sizing and
Capacities of Gas Piping; appendix B Sizing of Venting Systems Serving
Appliances Equipped with Draft Hoods, Category I Appliances and Appliances
Listed for Use with Type B Vents; appendix C Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft
and Direct-Vent Venting Systems; and appendix D Recommended Procedure for
Safety Inspection of an Existing Appliance Installation.
   International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition. Published by the
International Code Council, Inc.
   International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, 2018 edition. Published by the
International Code Council, Inc., and the following appendices: appendix A
General Requirements, appendix B Vegetation Management Plan, and appendix C
Fire Hazard Severity Form.
   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 edition. Published by the
International Code Council, Inc.
   B.   Whenever in this title reference is made to title 8 or any other title
of this Code, such cross reference is for the coordination of this title with
such other ordinances, but to any extent such other ordinances have not yet
been adopted, such reference shall be ignored. (Ord. 498, 3-25-2003; amd. Ord.
560, 8-24-2004; amd. Ord. 592, 8-2-2005; amd. Ord. 678, 11-13-2007; amd. Ord.
725, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 781, 5-17-2011; amd. Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord.
836, 1-6-2015; amd. Ord. 879, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 919, 2-16-2021)
7-2-4: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The International Building Code, 2018 edition, as adopted, is hereby amended as
follows:
   A.   Chapter 1 "Scope and Administration" is amended as follows:
   101.1 Title. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the following: "Ada County."
   101.4.3 Plumbing. Delete section.
   101.4.4 Property maintenance. Delete section.
   101.4.5 Fire prevention. Delete section.
   102.6 Existing Structures. Amend subsection paragraph as follows:
      The legal occupancy of any structure existing on the date of adoption of
this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as otherwise
specifically provided in this code, or the International Existing Building
Code.
   102.6.2 Buildings previously occupied. Amend subsection paragraph as
follows:
      The legal occupancy of any building existing on the date of adoption of
this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as otherwise
specifically provided in this code, or as is deemed necessary by the building
official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
   103.3 Deputies. Delete the last sentence.
   104.8 Liability. Delete section.
   105.1 Required. Amend subsection as follows:
      Any owner or owner's authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or
replace any gas or mechanical system, the installation of which is regulated by
this code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application
to the building official and obtain the required permit.
      An Ada County building division permit is issued to the owner of the
property and remains tied to the specific property even as the ownership may
change. The applicant for any Ada County building division permit is, by
definition, a representative of the property owner and as such may not have
individual control or ownership of that permit.
   105.1.1 Annual permit. Amend subsection as follows:
      Instead of an individual permit for each alteration to an already
approved gas or mechanical installation, the building official is authorized to
issue an annual permit upon application therefor to any person, firm or
corporation regularly employing one or more qualified tradespersons in the
building, structure or on the premises owned or operated by the applicant for
the permit.
   105.2 Work exempt from permit. Amend the "Building" exemptions and delete
the "Electrical" and "Plumbing" paragraphs as follows:
      Building:
      1. One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area is not greater than
200 square feet (18.58 m2) or 12 feet (3658 mm) in total height above adjacent
grade.
      2. Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high.
      3. Oil derricks
      4. Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured
from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge or impounding Class I, II or IIIA liquids.
      5. Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not greater
than 5,000 gallons (18,925 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width is
not greater than 2:1.
      6. Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above
adjacent grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an
accessible route.
      7. Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      8. Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
      9. Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy that
are less than 24 inches (610 mm) deep, are not greater than 5,000 gallons
(18,925 L) and are installed entirely above ground.
      10. Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, not including service systems.
      11. Swings and other playground equipment.
      12. Window awnings in Group R-3 and U occupancies, supported by an
exterior wall that do not project more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the
exterior wall and do not require additional support.
      13. Nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions
not over 5 feet 9 inches (1753 mm) in height.
      14. Buildings or structures used to facilitate construction projects.
These buildings shall be removed from the property prior to the issuance of any
Certificate of Occupancy.
      15. Painted and manufactured wall signs not exceeding thirty two (32)
square feet and post or pole mounted signs not exceeding thirty two (32) square
feet or exceeding six (6) feet above adjacent grade in height installed in
accordance with manufacturers or design professionals instructions.
      Electrical: Delete electrical paragraphs contained in section 105.2.
      Plumbing: Delete plumbing paragraphs contained in section 105.2.
   105.2.2 Repairs. Delete section.
   105.3.2 Time limitation of application. Delete paragraph and replace with
the following:
      Applications for which no permit is issued within 180 days following the
date of eligibility for permit issuance shall expire by limitation, and plans
and other data submitted for review may thereafter be returned to the applicant
or destroyed by the building official. The building official may extend the
time for action by the applicant for a period not exceeding 180 calendar days
on request by the applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of
the applicant have prevented action from being taken. No application shall be
extended more than once. In order to renew action on an application after
expiration, the applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   105.5 Expiration. Add a second paragraph as follows:
      If work has not been completed, the final inspection performed and the
project approved for occupancy or use within three (3) years from the date of
such permit being issued, such permit shall expire by limitation and become
null and void. Prior to work recommencing after the permit has expired, a new
permit shall be obtained. The cost of the new permit, if obtained within one
year of the original permit expiration, shall be one half (1/2) of the cost of
a new permit for the remaining work required to complete the structure or
project.
   107.1 General. Amend subsection as follows:
      Submittal documents consisting of construction documents, statement of
special inspections, geotechnical report and other data shall be submitted in
one digital set with each permit application. The construction documents shall
be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the statutes
of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed. Where special
conditions exist, the building official is authorized to require additional
construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.
   108.1 General. Amend subsection as follows:
      The building official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary
structures and temporary uses. Such permits shall be limited as to time of
service. Service less than thirty (30) days shall not require a permit. Service
over thirty (30) days shall require a permit but shall not be permitted for
more than 180 days. Permits for temporary structures shall bear fees identical
to permanent structures. The building official is authorized to grant
extensions for demonstrated cause.
   109.3 Building permit valuations. Delete paragraph and replace with the
following:
      The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated permit value at
time of application. Permit valuations shall include total value of work,
including materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as
electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and permanent systems. The
building permit valuation upon which the Ada County Building Permit fee is
based shall be the project valuation as stated by the Ada County Building
Permit applicant or the calculated value using the building division fees as
adopted by the Board of Ada County Commissioners, whichever valuation is
greatest.
   109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Add a second paragraph as
follows:
      Such fee shall be an investigative fee equal to the Ada County permit fee
for the work accomplished illegally, and shall be paid Ada County prior to the
acceptance of an Ada County building permit application. This fee is an
additional fee and shall not apply to any fee for any Ada County building
permit that may subsequently be issued. Payment of the investigative fee does
not vest the illegal work with any legitimacy, nor does it establish any right
to an Ada County permit for continued development of that project.
   109.6 Refunds. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Eighty percent (80%) of the plan review fee shall be available for refund
if no plan review has begun. Eighty percent (80%) of the building permit fee
shall be available for refund if no work has begun on the project. All requests
for fee refunds must be made to the building official in writing and must be
made within thirty (30) days of payment of the fee in question in order to be
eligible for a refund.
   110.3.3. Lowest floor elevation. Add a second sentence as follows:
      Development within designated flood hazard areas shall be done in
conformance with the Ada County Code, Title 8, Chapter 3, Article F. Specific
flood hazard area inspection results and elevation documentation shall be
provided to Ada County in conformance with the Ada County Code, Title 8,
Chapter 3, Article F.
   111.1 Change in occupancy. Add a second paragraph as follows:
      The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place and
shall not be removed except by the building official.
   Add a new subsection 111.1.1 as follows:
      111.1.1 Certificate of Completion. A Certificate of Completion may be
issued in lieu of a Certificate of Occupancy when the scope of work of a permit
does not change the occupant load, occupancy group or occupancy use
classification of a tenant space, structure or portion of a structure.
   113 Board of Appeals. Delete subsections 113.1, 113.2 and 113.3 and replace
with new subsection 113.1 as follows:
      113.1 General. Appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the
building official shall be heard pursuant to Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter
1.
   114.4 Violation penalties. Amend the subsection as follows:
      Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply with
any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a
building or structure in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate issued under
the provisions of this code, shall be subject to the penalties as prescribed by
law in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   115.3 Unlawful continuance. Amend the section as follows:
      Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the penalties as
prescribed by law in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   B.   Chapter 2 "Definitions" is amended to add a new definition as follows:
   PERMIT APPLICANT. The property owner or the individual that legally
represents a property owner seeking permission from Ada County to construct a
building or structure on a specific piece of property.
   Chapter 2 "Definitions" is amended to add new definitions for "Mass Timber"
and "Noncombustible Protection (for Mass Timber)," and amend the definitions of
"Secondary Members," and "Wall, Load-Bearing" as follows:
   MASS TIMBER. Structural elements of Type IV construction primarily of solid,
built-up, panelized or engineered wood products that meet minimum cross-section
dimensions of Type IV construction.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE PROTECTION (FOR MASS TIMBER). Noncombustible material, in
accordance with Section 703.8, designed to increase the fire-resistance rating
and delay the combustion of mass timber.
   SECONDARY STRUCTURAL MEMBERS. The following structural members shall be
considered secondary members and not part of the primary structural frame:
      1.   Structural members not having direct connections to the columns.
      2.   Members of the floor construction and roof construction not having
direct connections to the columns.
      3.   Bracing members that are not designated as part of a primary
structural frame or bearing wall.
   WALL, LOAD-BEARING. Any wall meeting either of the following
classifications:
      1.   Any metal or wood stud wall that supports more than 100 pounds per
linear foot (1459 N/m) of vertical load in addition to its own weight.
      2.   Any masonry, concrete or mass timber wall that supports more than
200 pounds per linear foot (2919 N/m) of vertical load in addition to its own
weight.
   C.   Chapter 3 "Use and Occupancy Classification" is amended as follows:
   305.2.3 Five or fewer children in a dwelling unit. Delete subsection and
replace with new subsection 305.2.3 as follows:
      305.2.3 Twelve (12) or fewer children in a dwelling unit. A facility such
as the above within a dwelling unit and having twelve (12) or fewer children
receiving such day care shall be classified as a Group R-3 occupancy or shall
comply with the International Residential Code.
   308.2.4 Five (5) or fewer persons receiving custodial care. Delete section
308.2.4 and replace with the following:
      308.2.4 Five (5) or fewer persons receiving custodial care. A facility
with five (5) or fewer persons receiving custodial care shall be classified as
a Group R-3 occupancy or comply with the International Residential Code.
   Delete section 308.3.2 and replace with the following:
      308.3.2 Five (5) or fewer persons receiving medical care. A facility with
five (5) or fewer persons receiving medical care shall be classified as a group
R-3 occupancy.
   308.5.4 Five (5) or fewer persons receiving custodial care. Delete
subsection and replace with new subsection 308.5.4 as follows:
      308.5.4 Persons receiving care in a dwelling unit. A facility such as the
above within a dwelling unit and having twelve (12) or fewer children receiving
day care or having five (5) or fewer persons receiving custodial care shall be
classified as a Group R-3 occupancy or shall comply with the International
Residential Code.
   310.4 Residential Group R-3. Delete the subsection and add new subsection as
follows:
      310.4 Residential Group R-3. Residential Group R-3 occupancies where the
occupants are primarily permanent in nature and not classified as Group R-1, R-
2, R-4, E or I, including:
      1. Buildings that do not contain more than two (2) dwelling units;
      2. Care facilities that provide accommodations for five (5) or fewer
persons receiving personal care, custodial care or medical care;
      3. Congregate living facilities (nontransient) with sixteen (16) or fewer
occupants, including boarding houses (nontransient), convents, dormitories,
fraternities and sororities and monasteries;
      4. Congregate living facilities (transient) with ten (10) or fewer
occupants including boarding houses (transient);
      5. Dwelling units providing day care for twelve (12) or fewer children;
or
      6. Lodging houses (transient) with five (5) or fewer guest rooms and ten
(10) or fewer occupants.
   310.4.1 Care facilities within a dwelling. Delete paragraph and replace with
new paragraph as follows:
      310.4.1 Care facilities within a dwelling. Care facilities for twelve
(12) or fewer children receiving day care or for five (5) or fewer persons
receiving personal care or custodial care that are within a one or two family
dwelling are permitted to comply with the International Residential Code.
   D.   Chapter 4 "Special Detailed Requirements Based on Occupancy and Use,"
is amended as follows:
   Amend Section 403.3.2 Water supply to required fire pumps as follows:
   403.3.2 Water supply to required fire pumps. In all buildings that are more
than 420 feet (128 m) in building height and buildings of Type IVA and IVB
construction that are more than 120 feet (36 576 mm) in building height,
required fire pumps shall be supplied by connections to not fewer than two
water mains located in different streets. Separate supply piping shall be
provided between each connection to the water main and the pumps. Each
connection and the supply piping between the connection and the pumps shall be
sized to supply the flow and pressure required for the pumps to operate.
   Exception: Two connections to the same main shall be permitted provided that
the main is valved such that an interruption can be isolated so that the water
supply will continue without interruption through not fewer than one of the
connections.
   E.   Chapter 5 "General building Heights and Areas" is amended as follows:
   Table 504.3 "Allowable Building Height in Feet Above Grade Plane" is deleted
and a new Table 504.3 "Allowable Building Height in Feet Above Grade Plane" is
added as follows:
   TABLE 504.3
      ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT IN FEET ABOVE GRADE PLANEa
                         TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION See Footnotes Type I Type II Type III Type IV  Type V
                                       A B    A B     A B      A B C HT A B
OCCUPANCY            TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION
CLASSIFICATION       See Footnotes Type I Type II Type III Type IV       Type V
                                   A  B   A  B    A  B     A   B   C  HT A  B
A, B, E, F, M, S, U  NSb           UL 160 65 55   65 55    65  65  65 65 50 40
                     S             UL 180 85 75   85 75    270 180 85 85 70 60
H-1, H-2, H-3, H-5   NSc, d        UL 160 65 55   65 55    120 90  65 65 50 40
                     S
H-4                  NSc, d        UL 160 65 55   65 55    65  65  65 65 50 40
                     S             UL 180 85 75   85 75    140 100 85 85 70 60
I-1 Condition 1, I-3 NSd, e        UL 160 65 55   65 55    65  65  65 65 50 40
                     S             UL 180 85 75   85 75    180 120 85 85 70 60
I-1 Condition 2, I-2 NSd, e, f     UL 160 65 55   65 55    65  65  65 65 50 40
                     S             UL 180 85
I-4                  NSd, g        UL 160 65 55   65 55    65  65  65 65 50 40
                     S             UL 180 85 75   85 75    180 120 85 85 70 60
                     NSd           UL 160 65 55   65 55    65  65  65 65 50 40
Rh                   S13D          60 60  60 60   60 60    60  60  60 60 50 40
                     S13R          60 60  60 60   60 60    60  60  60 60 60 60
                     S             UL 180 85 75   85 75    270 180 85 85 70 60
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
UL = Unlimited; NS = Buildings not equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system; S = Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler
system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1; S13R = Buildings
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.2; S13D = Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.3.
   a.   See Chapters 4 and 5 for specific exceptions to the allowable height in
this chapter.
   b.   See Section 903.2 for the minimum thresholds for protection by an
automatic sprinkler system for specific occupancies.
   c.   New Group H occupancies are required to be protected by an automatic
sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.2.5.
   d.   The NS value is only for use in evaluation of existing building height
in accordance with the International Existing Building Code.
   e.   New Group I-1 and I-3 occupancies are required to be protected by an
automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.2.6. For new Group I-
1 occupancies Condition 1, see Exception 1 of Section 903.2.6.
   f.   New and existing Group I-2 occupancies are required to be protected by
an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.2.6 and Section
1103.5 of the International Fire Code.
   g.   For new Group I-4 occupancies, see Exceptions 2 and 3 of Section
903.2.6.
   h.   New Group R occupancies are required to be protected by an automatic
sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.2.8.
 
Table 504.4 "Allowable Number of Stories Above Grade Plan" is deleted and a new
Table 504.4 "Allowable Number of Stories Above Grade Plan" is added as follows:
   TABLE 504.4
   ALLOWABLE NUMBER OF STORIES ABOVE GRADE PLANEa, b
                         TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION See Footnotes Type I Type II Type III Type IV  Type V
                                       A B    A B     A B      A B C HT A B
OCCUPANCY       TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION
CLASSIFICATION  See Footnotes Type I Type II Type III Type IV     Type V
                              A  B   A  B    A  B     A  B  C  HT A  B
A-1             NS            UL 5   3  2    3  2     3  3  3  3  2  1
                S             UL 6   4  3    4  3     9  6  4  4  3  2
A-2             NS            UL 11  3  2    3  2     3  3  3  3  2  1
                S             UL 12  4  3    4  3     18 12 6  4  3  2
A-3             NS            UL 11  3  2    3  2     3  3  3  3  2  1
                S             UL 12  4  3    4  3     18 12 6  4  3  2
A-4             NS            UL 11  3  2    3  2     3  3  3  3  2  1
                S             UL 12  4  3    4  3     18 12 6  4  3  2
A-5             NS            UL UL  UL UL   UL UL    1  1  1  UL UL UL
                S             UL UL  UL UL   UL UL    UL UL UL UL UL UL
B               NS            UL 11  5  3    5  3     5  5  5  5  3  2
                S             UL 12  6  4    6  4     18 12 9  6  4  3
E               NS            UL 5   3  2    3  2     3  3  3  3  1  1
                S             UL 6   4  3    4  3     9  6  4  4  2  2
F-1             NS            UL 11  4  2    3  2     3  3  3  4  2  1
                S             UL 12  5  3    4  3     10 7  5  5  3  2
F-2             NS            UL 11  5  3    4  3     5  5  5  5  3  2
                S             UL 12  6  4    5  4     12 8  6  6  4  3
H-1             NSc, d        1  1   1  1    1  1     NP NP NP 1  1  NP
                S                                     1  1  1
H-2             NSc, d        UL 3   2  1    2  1     1  1  1  2  1  1
                S                                     2  2  2
H-3             NSc, d        UL 6   4  2    4  2     3  3  3  4  2  1
                S                                     4  4  4
H-4             NSc, d        UL 7   5  3    5  3     5  5  5  5  3  2
                S             UL 8   6  4    6  4     8  7  6  6  4  3
H-5             NSc, d        4  4   3  3    3  3     2  2  2  3  3  2
                S                                     3  3  3
I-1 Condition 1 NSd, e        UL 9   4  3    4  3     4  4  4  4  3  2
                S             UL 10  5  4    5  4     10 7  5  5  4  3
I-1 Condition 2 NSd, e        UL 9   4  3    4  3     3  3  3  4  3  2
                S             UL 10  5                10 6  4
I-2             NSd, f        UL 4   2  1    1  NP    NP NP NP 1  1  NP
                S             UL 5   3                7  5  1
I-3             NSd, e        UL 4   2  1    2  1     2  2  2  2  2  1
                S             UL 5   3  2    3  2     7  5  3  3  3  2
I-4             NSd, g        UL 5   3  2    3  2     3  3  3  3  1  1
                S             UL 6   4  3    4  3     9  6  4  4  2  2
M               NS            UL 11  4  2    4  2     4  4  4  4  3  1
                S             UL 12  5  3    5  3     12 8  6  5  4  2
                NSd           UL 11  4  4    4  4     4  4  4  4  3  2
R-1h            S13R          4  4                                4  3
                S             UL 12  5  5    5  5     18 12 8  5  4  3
                NSd           UL 11  4  4    4  4     4  4  4  4  3  2
R-2h            S13R          4  4   4                            4  3
                S             UL 12  5  5    5  5     18 12 8  5  4  3
                NSd           UL 11                               3  3
R-3h            S13D          4  4   4  4    4  4     4  4  4  4  3  3
                S13R          4  4                                4  4
                S             UL 12  5  5    5  5     18 12 5  5  4  4
                NSd           UL 11                               3  2
R-4h            S13D          4  4   4  4    4  4     4  4  4  4  3  2
                S13R          4  4                                4  3
                S             UL 12  5  5    5  5     18 12 5  5  4  3
S-1             NS            UL 11  4  2    3  2     4  4  4  4  3  1
                S             UL 12  5  4    4  4     10 7  5  5  4  2
S-2             NS            UL 11  5  3    4  3     4  4  4  5  4  2
                S             UL 12  6  4    5  4     12 8  5  6  5  3
U               NS            UL 5   4  2    3  2     4  4  4  4  2  1
                S             UL 6   5  3    4  3     9  6  5  5  3  2
UL = Unlimited; NP = Not Permitted; NS = Buildings not equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system; S = Buildings equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.1; S13R = Buildings equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section
903.3.1.2; S13D = Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.3.
   a.   See Chapters 4 and 5 for specific exceptions to the allowable
height in this chapter.
   b.   See Section 903.2 for the minimum thresholds for protection by
an automatic sprinkler system for specific occupancies.
   c.   New Group H occupancies are required to be protected by an
automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.2.5.
   d.   The NS value is only for use in evaluation of existing building
height in accordance with the International Existing Building Code.
   e.   New Group I-1 and I-3 occupancies are required to be protected
by an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.2.6. For
new Group I-1 occupancies, Condition 1, see Exception 1 of Section
903.2.6.
   f.   New and existing Group I-2 occupancies are required to be
protected by an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section
903.2.6 and 1103.5 of the International Fire Code.
   g.   For new Group I-4 occupancies, see Exceptions 2 and 3 of Section
903.2.6.
   h.   New Group R occupancies are required to be protected by an
automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.2.8.
 
Table 506.2 "Allowable Area Factor in Square Feet" is deleted and a new Table
506.2 "Allowable Area Factor in Square Feet" is added as follows:
   TABLE 506.2
   ALLOWABLE AREA FACTOR (At = NS, S1, S13R, S13D or SM, as applicable) IN
SQUARE FEETa, b
OCCUPANCY      TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION
CLASSIFICATION SEE FOOT- NOTES Type I Type II Type III Type IV  Type V
                               A B    A B     A B      A B C HT A B
               TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION
OCCUPANCY      SEE   Type I         Type II         Type III        Type IV                         Type V
CLASSIFICATION FOOT- A      B       A       B       A       B       A       B       C       HT      A      B
               NOTES
               NS    UL     UL      15,500  8,500   14,000  8,500   45,000  30,000  18,750  15,000  11,500 5,500
A-1            S1    UL     UL      62,000  34,000  56,000  34,000  180,000 120,000 75,000  60,000  46,000 22,000
               SM    UL     UL      46,500  25,500  42,000  25,500  135,000 90,000  56,250  45,000  34,500 16,500
               NS    UL     UL      15,500  9,500   14,000  9,500   45,000  30,000  18,750  15,000  11,500 6,000
A-2            S1    UL     UL      62,000  38,000  56,000  38,000  180,000 120,000 75,000  60,000  46,000 24,000
               SM    UL     UL      46,500  28,500  42,000  28,500  135,000 90,000  56,250  45,000  34,500 18,000
               NS    UL     UL      15,500  9,500   14,000  9,500   45,000  30,000  18,750  15,000  11,500 6,000
A-3            S1    UL     UL      62,000  38,000  56,000  38,000  180,000 120,000 75,000  60,000  46,000 24,000
               SM    UL     UL      46,500  28,500  42,000  28,500  135,000 90,000  56,250  45,000  34,500 18,000
               NS    UL     UL      15,500  9,500   14,000  9,500   45,000  30,000  18,750  15,000  11,500 6,000
A-4            S1    UL     UL      62,000  38,000  56,000  38,000  180,000 120,000 75,000  60,000  46,000 24,000
               SM    UL     UL      46,500  28,500  42,000  28,500  135,000 90,000  56,250  45,000  34,500 18,000
               NS
A-5            S1    UL     UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL     UL
               SM
               NS    UL     UL      37,500  23,000  28,500  19,000  108,000 72,000  45,000  36,000  18,000 9,000
B              S1    UL     UL      150,000 92,000  114,000 76,000  432,000 288,000 180,000 144,000 72,000 36,000
               SM    UL     UL      112,500 69,000  85,500  57,000  324,000 216,000 135,000 108,000 54,000 27,000
               NS    UL     UL      26,500  14,500  23,500  14,500  76,500  51,000  31,875  25,500  18,500 9,500
E              S1    UL     UL      106,000 58,000  94,000  58,000  306,000 204,000 127,500 102,000 74,000 38,000
               SM    UL     UL      79,500  43,500  70,500  43,500  229,500 153,000 95,625  76,500  55,500 28,500
               NS    UL     UL      25,000  15,500  19,000  12,000  100,500 67,000  41,875  33,500  14,000 8,500
F-1            S1    UL     UL      100,000 62,000  76,000  48,000  402,000 268,000 167,500 134,000 56,000 34,000
               SM    UL     UL      75,000  46,500  57,000  36,000  301,500 201,000 125,625 100,500 42,000 25,500
               NS    UL     UL      37,500  23,000  28,500  18,000  151,500 101,000 63,125  50,500  21,000 13,000
F-2            S1    UL     UL      150,000 92,000  114,000 72,000  606,000 404,000 252,500 202,000 84,000 52,000
               SM    UL     UL      112,500 69,000  85,500  54,000  454,500 303,000 189,375 151,500 63,000 39,000
H-1            NSc   21,000 16,500  11,000  7,000   9,500   7,000   10,500  10,500  10,500  10,500  7,500  NP
               S1
               NSc
H-2            S1    21,000 16,500  11,000  7,000   9,500   7,000   10,500  10,500  10,500  10,500  7,500  3,000
               SM
               NSc
H-3            S1    UL     60,000  26,500  14,000  17,500  13,000  25,500  25,500  25,500  25,500  10,000 5,000
               SM
               NSc,  UL     UL      37,500  17,500  28,500  17,500  72,000  54,000  40,500  36,000  18,000 6,500
H-4            d
               S1    UL     UL      150,000 70,000  114,000 70,000  288,000 216,000 162,000 144,000 72,000 26,000
               SM    UL     UL      112,500 52,500  85,500  52,500  216,000 162,000 121,500 108,000 54,000 19,500
               NSc,  UL     UL      37,500  23,000  28,500  19,000  72,000  54,000  40,500  36,000  18,000 9,000
H-5            d
               S1    UL     UL      150,000 92,000  114,000 76,000  288,000 216,000 162,000 144,000 72,000 36,000
               SM    UL     UL      112,500 69,000  85,500  57,000  216,000 162,000 121,500 108000  54,000 27,000
               NSd,  UL     55,000  19,000  10,000  16,500  10,000  54,000  36,000  18,000  18,000  10,500 4,500
I-1            e
               S1    UL     220,000 76,000  40,000  66,000  40,000  216,000 144,000 72,000  72,000  42,000 18,000
               SM    UL     165,000 57,000  30,000  49,500  30,000  162,000 108,000 54,000  54,000  31,500 13,500
               NSd,  UL     UL      15,000  11,000  12,000  NP      36,000  24,000  12,000  12,000  9,500  NP
I-2            f
               S1    UL     UL      60,000  44,000  48,000  NP      144,000 96,000  48,000  48,000  38,000 NP
               SM    UL     UL      45,000  33,000  36,000  NP      108,000 72,000  36,000  36,000  28,500 NP
               NSd,  UL     UL      15,000  10,000  10,500  7,500   36,000  24,000  12,000  12,000  7,500  5,000
I-3            e
               S1    UL     UL      60,000  40,000  42,000  30,000  144,000 96,000  48,000  48,000  30,000 20,000
               SM    UL     UL      45,000  30,000  31,500  22,500  108,000 72,000  36,000  36,000  22,500 15,000
               NSd,  UL     60,500  26,500  13,000  23,500  13,000  76,500  51,000  25,500  25,500  18,500 9,000
I-4            g
               S1    UL     121,000 106,000 52,000  94,000  52,000  306,000 204,000 102,000 102,000 74,000 36,000
               SM    UL     181,500 79,500  39,000  70,500  39,000  229,500 153,000 76,500  76,500  55,500 27,000
               NS    UL     UL      21,500  12,500  18,500  12,500  61,500  41,000  26,625  20,500  14,000 9,000
M              S1    UL     UL      86,000  50,000  74,000  50,000  246,000 164,000 102,500 82,000  56,000 36,000
               SM    UL     UL      64,500  37,500  55,500  37,500  184,500 123,000 76,875  61,500  42,000 27,000
               NSd   UL     UL      24,000  16,000  24,000  16,000  61,500  41,000  25,625  20,500  12,000 7,000
R-1h           S13R
               S1    UL     UL      96,000  64,000  96,000  64,000  246,000 164,000 102,500 82,000  48,000 28,000
               SM    UL     UL      72,000  48,000  72,000  48,000  184,500 123,000 76,875  61,500  36,000 21,000
               NSd   UL     UL      24,000  16,000  24,000  16,000  61,500  41,000  25,625  20,500  12,000 7,000
R-2h           S13R
               S1    UL     UL      96,000  64,000  96,000  64,000  246,000 164,000 102,500 82,000  48,000 28,000
               SM    UL     UL      72,000  48,000  72,000  48,000  184,500 123,000 76,875  61,500  36,000 21,000
               NSd
               S13D
R-3h           S13R  UL     UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL      UL     UL
               S1
               SM
               NSd
               S13D  UL     UL      24,000  16,000  24,000  16,000  61,500  41,000  25,625  20,500  12,000 7,000
R-4h           S13R
               S1    UL     UL      96,000  64,000  96,000  64,000  246,000 164,000 102,500 82,000  48,000 28,000
               SM    UL     UL      72,000  48,000  72,000  48,000  184,500 123,000 76,875  61,500  36,000 21,000
               NS    UL     48,000  26,000  17,500  26,000  17,500  76,500  51,000  31,875  25,500  14,000 9,000
S-1            S1    UL     192,000 104,000 70,000  104,000 70,000  306,000 204,000 127,500 102,000 56,000 36,000
               SM    UL     144,000 78,000  52,500  78,000  52,500  229,500 153,000 95,625  76,500  42,000 27,000
               NS    UL     79,000  39,000  26,000  39,000  26,000  115,500 77,000  48,125  38,500  21,000 13,500
S-2            S1    UL     316,000 156,000 104,000 156,000 104,000 462,000 308,000 192,500 154,000 84,000 54,000
               SM    UL     237,000 117,000 78,000  117,000 78,000  346,500 231,000 144,375 115,500 63,000 40,500
               NSi   UL     35,500  19,000  8,500   14,000  8,500   54,000  36,000  22,500  18,000  9,000  5,500
U              S1    UL     142,000 76,000  34,000  56,000  34,000  216,000 144,000 90,000  72,000  36,000 22,000
               SM    UL     106,500 57,000  25,500  42,000  25,500  162,000 108,000 67,500  54,000  27,000 16,500
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2.
UL = Unlimited; NP = Not Permitted; NS = Buildings not equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system; S1
= Buildings a maximum of one story above grade plane equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system
installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1; SM = Buildings two or more stories above grade plane equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1; S13R = Buildings
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.2; S13D =
Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.3.
   a.   See Chapters 4 and 5 for specific exceptions to the allowable area in this chapter.
   b.   See Section 903.2 for the minimum thresholds for protection by an automatic sprinkler system for specific
occupancies.
   c.   New Group H occupancies are required to be protected by an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
Section 903.2.5.
   d.   The NS value is only for use in evaluation of existing building area in accordance with the International
Existing Building Code.
   e.   New Group I-1 and I-3 occupancies are required to be protected by an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.2.6. For new Group I-1 occupancies, Condition 1, see Exception 1 of Section 903.2.6.
   f.   New and existing Group I-2 occupancies are required to be protected by an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.2.6 and Section 1103.5 of the International Fire Code.
   g.   New Group I-4 occupancies see Exceptions 2 and 3 of Section 903.2.6.
   h.   New Group R occupancies are required to be protected by an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
Section 903.2.8.
   i.   The maximum allowable area for a single-story nonsprinklered Group U greenhouse is permitted to be 9,000
square feet, or the allowable area shall be permitted to comply with Table C102.1 of Appendix C.
 
   508.4.4.1 Construction. Amend paragraph as follows:
   508.4.4.1 Construction. Required separations shall be fire barriers
constructed in accordance with Section 707 or horizontal assemblies constructed
in accordance with Section 711, or both, so as to completely separate adjacent
occupancies. Mass timber elements serving as fire barriers or horizontal
assemblies to separate occupancies in Type IV-B or IV-C construction shall be
separated from the interior of the building with an approved thermal barrier
consisting of gypsum board that is not less than 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) in
thickness or a material that is tested in accordance with and meets the
acceptance criteria of both the Temperature Transmission Fire Test and the
Integrity Fire Test of NFPA 275.
   Add new Section 509.4.1.1 "Type IV-B and IV-C construction" as follows:
   509.4.1.1 Type IV-B and IV-C construction. Where Table 509 specifies a fire-
resistance-rated separation, mass timber elements serving as fire barriers or
horizontal assemblies in Type IV-B or IV-C construction shall be separated from
the interior of the incidental use with an approved thermal barrier consisting
of gypsum board that is not less than 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) in thickness or a
material that is tested in accordance with and meets the acceptance criteria of
both the Temperature Transmission Fire Test and the Integrity Fire Test of NFPA
275.
   F.   Chapter 6 "Types of Construction" is amended as follows:
   Table 601 “Fire-Resistance Rating Requirements for Building Elements
(Hours)” is deleted and a new Table 601 "Fire-Resistance Rating Requirements
for Building Elements (Hours") is added as follows:
   TABLE 601
   FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (HOURS)
BUILDING ELEMENT TYPE I TYPE II TYPE III TYPE IV  TYPE V
                 A B    A B     A B      A B C HT A B
BUILDING     TYPE I          TYPE II  TYPE III TYPE IV                 TYPE V
ELEMENT      A      B        A     B  A     B  A     B  C  HT          A     B
Primary
structural   3a, b  2a, b, c 1b, c 0c 1b, c 0  3a    2a 2a H           1b, c 0
framef (see
Section 202)
Bearing walls
Exteriore,f  3      2        1     0  2     2  3     2  2  2           1     0
Interior     3a     2a       1     0  1     0  3     2  2  1/HTg       1     0
Nonbearing
walls and    See Table 705.5
partitions
Exterior
Nonbearing
walls and    0      0        0     0  0     0  0     0  0  See Section 0     0
partitions                                                 2304.11.2
Interiord
Floor
construction
and
associated   2      2        1     0  1     0  2     2  2  HT          1     0
secondary
structural
members (see
Section 202)
Roof
construction
and
associated   1 1/2b 1b,c     1b,c  0c 1b,c  0  1 1/2 1  1  HT          1b,c  0
secondary
structural
members (see
Section 202)
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
   a.   Roof supports: Fire-resistance ratings of primary structural frame and
bearing walls are permitted to be reduced by 1 hour where supporting a roof
only.
   b.   Except in Group F-1, H, M and S-1 occupancies, fire protection of
structural members in roof construction shall not be required, including
protection of primary structural frame members, roof framing and decking where
every part of the roof construction is 20 feet or more above any floor
immediately below. Fire-retardant-treated wood members shall be allowed to be
used for such unprotected members.
   c.   In all occupancies, heavy timber complying with Section 2304.11 shall
be allowed for roof construction, including primary structural frame members,
where a 1-hour or less fire-resistance rating is required.
   d.   Not less than the fire-resistance rating required by other sections of
this code.
   e.   Not less than the fire-resistance rating based on fire separation
distance (see Table 705.5).
   f.   Not less than the fire-resistance rating as referenced in Section
704.10.
   g.   Heavy timber bearing walls supporting more than two floors or more
than a floor and a roof shall have a fire resistance rating of not less than 1
hour.
 
   Add a new Section 602.1.2 Alternative provisions as follows:
   602.1.2 Alternative provisions. As an alternative to the construction types
defined in Sections 602.2 through 602.5, building and structures erected or to
be erected, altered, or extended in height or area may be classified as
construction type IV-A, IV-B, or IV-C in accordance with the provisions of
Section 602.4 Type IV construction and shall comply with the provisions of
Section 602.4 and all other applicable provisions of this code.
   Section 602.4 Type IV is deleted in its entirely and a new Section 602.4
Type IV is added as follows:
   602.4 Type IV. Type IV construction is that type of construction in which
the building elements are mass timber or noncombustible materials and have
fire-resistance ratings in accordance with Table 601. Mass timber elements
shall meet the fire-resistance-rating requirements of this section based on
either the fire-resistance rating of the noncombustible protection, the mass
timber, or a combination of both and shall be determined in accordance with
Section 703.2. The minimum dimensions and permitted materials for building
elements shall comply with the provisions of this section and Section 2304.11.
Mass timber elements of Types IV-A, IV-B and IV-C construction shall be
protected with noncombustible protection applied directly to the mass timber in
accordance with Sections 602.4.1 through 602.4.3. The time assigned to the
noncombustible protection shall be determined in accordance with Section 703.8
and comply with Section 722.7.
      Cross-laminated timber shall be labeled as conforming to ANSI/APA PRG 320
as referenced in section 2303.1.4.
      Exterior load-bearing walls and nonload-bearing walls shall be mass
timber construction or shall be of noncombustible construction.
      Exception: Exterior load-bearing walls and nonloadbearing walls of Type
IV-HT Construction in accordance with Section 602.4.4.
      The interior building elements, including nonload-bearing walls and
partitions, shall be of mass timber construction or of noncombustible
construction.
      Exception: Interior building elements and nonload-bearing walls and
partitions of Type IV-HT construction in accordance with Section 602.4.4.
      Combustible concealed spaces are not permitted except as otherwise
indicated in Sections 602.4.1 through 602.4.4 Combustible stud spaces within
light frame walls of Type IV-HT construction shall not be considered concealed
spaces, but shall comply with Section 718.
      In buildings of Type IV-A, IV-B, and IV-C construction with an occupied
floor located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) above the lowest level of fire
department access, up to and including 12 stories or 180 feet (54 864 mm) above
grade plane, mass timber interior exit and elevator hoistway enclosures shall
be protected in accordance with Section 602.4.1.2. In buildings greater than 12
stories or 180 feet (54 864 mm) above grade plane, interior exit and elevator
hoistway enclosures shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
   602.4.1 Type IV-A. Building elements in Type IV-A construction shall be
protected in accordance with Sections 602.4.1.1 through 602.4.1.6. The required
fire-resistance rating of noncombustible elements and protected mass timber
elements shall be determined in accordance with Section 703.2.
   602.4.1.1 Exterior protection. The outside face of exterior walls of mass
timber construction shall be protected with noncombustible protection with a
minimum assigned time of 40 minutes, as specified in Table 722.7.1(1).
Components of the exterior wall covering shall be of noncombustible material
except water-resistive barriers having a peak heat release rate of less than
150kW/m2, a total heat release of less than 20 MJ/m2 and an effective heat of
combustion of less than 18MJ/kg as determined in accordance with ASTM E1354 and
having a flame spread index of 25 or less and a smoke-developed index of 450 or
less as determined in accordance with ASTM E84 or UL 723. The ASTM E1354 test
shall be conducted on specimens at the thickness intended for use, in the
horizontal orientation and at an incident radiant heat flux of 50 kW/m2.
   602.4.1.2 Interior protection. Interior faces of all mass timber elements,
including the inside faces of exterior mass timber walls and mass timber roofs,
shall be protected with materials complying with Section 703.3.
   602.4.1.2.1 Protection time. Noncombustible protection shall contribute a
time equal to or greater than times assigned in Table 722.7.1(1), but not less
than 80 minutes. The use of materials and their respective protection
contributions specified in Table 722.7.1(2) shall be permitted to be used for
compliance with Section 722.7.1.
   602.4.1.3 Floors. The floor assembly shall contain a noncombustible material
not less than 1 inch (25 mm) in thickness above the mass timber. Floor finishes
in accordance with Section 804 shall be permitted on top of the noncombustible
material. The underside of floor assemblies shall be protected in accordance
with Section 602.4.1.2.
   602.4.1.4 Roofs. The interior surfaces of roof assemblies shall be protected
in accordance with Section 602.4.1.2. Roof coverings in accordance with Chapter
15 shall be permitted on the outside surface of the roof assembly.
   602.4.1.5 Concealed spaces. Concealed spaces shall not contain combustibles
other than electrical, mechanical, fire protection, or plumbing materials and
equipment permitted in plenums in accordance with Section 602 of the
International Mechanical Code, and shall comply with all applicable provisions
of Section 718. Combustible construction forming concealed spaces shall be
protected in accordance with Section 602.4.1.2.
   602.4.1.6 Shafts. Shafts shall be permitted in accordance with Sections 713
and 718. Both the shaft side and room side of mass timber elements shall be
protected in accordance with Section 602.4.1.2.
   602.4.2 Type IV-B. Building elements in Type IV-B construction shall be
protected in accordance with Sections 602.4.2.1 through 602.4.2.6. The required
fire-resistance rating of noncombustible elements or mass timber elements shall
be determined in accordance with Section 703.2.
   602.4.2.1 Exterior protection. The outside face of exterior walls of mass
timber construction shall be protected with noncombustible protection with a
minimum assigned time of 40 minutes, as specified in Table 722.7.1(1).
Components of the exterior wall covering shall be of noncombustible material
except water-resistive barriers having a peak heat release rate of less than
150kW/m2, a total heat release of less than 20 MJ/m2 and an effective heat of
combustion of less than 18MJ/kg as determined in accordance with ASTM E1354,
and having a flame spread index of 25 or less and a smoke-developed index of
450 or less as determined in accordance with ASTM E84 or UL 723. The ASTM E1354
test shall be conducted on specimens at the thickness intended for use, in the
horizontal orientation and at an incident radiant heat flux of 50 kW/m2.
   602.4.2.2 Interior protection. Interior faces of all mass timber elements,
including the inside face of exterior mass timber walls and mass timber roofs,
shall be protected, as required by this section, with materials complying with
Section 707.3.
   602.4.2.2.1 Protection time. Noncombustible protection shall contribute a
time equal to or greater than times assigned in Table 722.7.1(1), but not less
than 80 minutes. The use of materials and their respective protection
contributions specified in Table 722.7.1(2) shall be permitted to be used for
compliance with Section 722.7.1.
   602.4.2.2.2 Protected area. Interior faces of mass timber elements,
including the inside face of exterior mass timber walls and mass timber roofs,
shall be protected in accordance with Section 602.4.2.2.1.
   Exceptions: Unprotected portions of mass timber ceilings and walls complying
with Section 602.4.2.2.4 and the following:
      1.   Unprotected portions of mass timber ceilings and walls complying
with one of the following:
      1.1.   Unprotected portions of mass timber ceilings, including attached
beams, shall be permitted and shall be limited to an area equal to 20 percent
of the floor area in any dwelling unit or fire area.
      1.2.   Unprotected portions of mass timber walls, including attached
columns, shall be permitted and shall be limited to an area equal to 40 percent
of the floor area in any dwelling unit or fire area.
      1.3.   Unprotected portions of both walls and ceilings of mass timber,
including attached columns and beams, in any dwelling unit or fire area shall
be permitted in accordance with Section 602.4.2.2.3.
      2.   Mass timber columns and beams that are not an integral portion of
walls or ceilings, respectively, shall be permitted to be unprotected without
restriction of either aggregate area or separation from one another.
   602.4.2.2.3 Mixed unprotected areas. In each dwelling unit or fire area,
where both portions of ceilings and portions of walls are unprotected, the
total allowable unprotected area shall be determined in accordance with
Equation 6-1.
      (Utc/Uac) + (Utw/Uaw) 1 (Equation 6-1)
      where:
      Utc = Total unprotected mass timber ceiling areas.
      Uac = Allowable unprotected mass timber ceiling area conforming to
Exception 1.1 of Section 602.4.2.2.2.
      Utw = Total unprotected mass timber wall areas.
      Uaw= Allowable unprotected mass timber wall area conforming to Exception
1.2 of Section 602.4.2.2.2.
   602.4.2.2.4 Separation distance between unprotected mass timber elements. In
each dwelling unit or fire area, unprotected portions of mass timber walls and
ceilings shall be not less than 15 feet (4572 mm) from unprotected portions of
other walls and ceilings, measured horizontally along the ceiling and from
other unprotected portions of walls measured horizontally along the floor.
   602.4.2.3 Floors. The floor assembly shall contain a noncombustible material
not less than 1 inch (25 mm) in thickness above the mass timber. Floor finishes
in accordance with Section 804 shall be permitted on top of the noncombustible
material. The underside of floor assemblies shall be protected in accordance
with Section 602.4.1.2
   602.4.2.4 Roofs. The interior surfaces of roof assemblies shall be protected
in accordance with Section 602.4.2.2 except, in nonoccupiable spaces, they
shall be treated as a concealed space with no portion left unprotected. Roof
coverings in accordance with Chapter 15 shall be permitted on the outside
surface of the roof assembly.
   602.4.2.5 Concealed spaces. Concealed spaces shall not contain combustibles
other than electrical, mechanical, fire protection, or plumbing materials and
equipment permitted in plenums in accordance with Section 602 of the
International Mechanical Code, and shall comply with all applicable provisions
of Section 718. Combustible construction forming concealed spaces shall be
protected in accordance with Section 602.4.1.2.
   602.4.2.6 Shafts. Shafts shall be permitted in accordance with Sections 713
and 718. Both the shaft side and room side of mass timber elements shall be
protected in accordance with Section 602.4.1.2.
   602.4.3 Type IV-C. Building elements in Type IV-C construction shall be
protected in accordance with Sections 602.4.3.1 through 602.4.3.6. The required
fire-resistance rating of building elements shall be determined in accordance
with Section 703.2.
   602.4.3.1 Exterior protection. The exterior side of walls of combustible
construction shall be protected with noncombustible protection with a minimum
assigned time of 40 minutes, as determined in Table 722.7.1(1). Components of
the exterior wall covering shall be of noncombustible material except water-
resistive barriers having a peak heat release rate of less than 150 kW/m2, a
total heat release of less than 20 MJ/m2 and an effective heat of combustion of
less than 18 MJ/kg as determined in accordance with ASTM E1354 and having a
flame spread index of 25 or less and a smoke-developed index of 450 or less as
determined in accordance with ASTM E84 or UL 723.
   The ASTM E1354 test shall be conducted on specimens at the thickness
intended for use, in the horizontal orientation and at an incident radiant heat
flux of 50 kW/m2.
   602.4.3.2 Interior protection. Mass timber elements are permitted to be
unprotected.
   602.4.3.3 Floors. Floor finishes in accordance with Section 804 shall be
permitted on top of the floor construction.
   602.4.3.4 Roof coverings. Roof coverings in accordance with Chapter 15 shall
be permitted on the outside surface of the roof assembly.
   602.4.3.5 Concealed spaces. Concealed spaces shall not contain combustibles
other than electrical, mechanical, fire protection, or plumbing materials and
equipment permitted in plenums in accordance with Section 602 of the
International Mechanical Code and shall comply with all applicable provisions
of Section 718. Combustible construction forming concealed spaces shall be
protected with noncombustible protection with a minimum assigned time of 40
minutes, as specified in Table 722.7.1(1).
   602.4.3.6 Shafts. Shafts shall be permitted in accordance with Sections 713
and 718. Shafts and elevator hoistway and interior exit stairway enclosures
shall be protected with noncombustible protection with a minimum assigned time
of 40 minutes, as specified in Table 722.7.1(1), on both the inside of the
shaft and the outside of the shaft.
   G.   Chapter 7 "Fire and Smoke Protection Features" is amended as follows:
   Add a new Section 703.8 Determination of noncombustible protection time
contribution as follows:
   703.8 Determination of noncombustible protection time contribution.
   The time, in minutes, contributed to the fire-resistance rating by the
noncombustible protection of mass timber building elements, components, or
assemblies, shall be established through a comparison of assemblies tested
using procedures set forth in ASTM E119 or UL 263. The test assemblies shall be
identical in construction, loading and materials, other than the noncombustible
protection. The two test assemblies shall be tested to the same criteria of
structural failure with the following conditions:
      1.   Test Assembly 1 shall be without protection.
      2.   Test Assembly 2 shall include the representative noncombustible
protection. The protection shall be fully defined in terms of configuration
details, attachment details, joint sealing details, accessories and all other
relevant details.
   The noncombustible protection time contribution shall be determined by
subtracting the fire-resistance time, in minutes, of Test Assembly 1 from the
fire-resistance time, in minutes, of Test Assembly 2.
   Add a new Section 703.9 Sealing of adjacent mass timber elements as follows:
   703.9 Sealing of adjacent mass timber elements. In buildings of Types IV-A,
IV-B and IV-C construction, sealant or adhesive shall be provided to resist the
passage of air in the following locations:
      1.   At abutting edges and intersections of mass timber building elements
required to be fire-resistance rated.
      2.   At abutting intersections of mass timber building elements and
building elements of other materials where both are required to be fire-
resistance rated.
   Sealants shall meet the requirements of ASTM C920. Adhesives shall meet the
requirements of ASTM D3498.
   Exception: Sealants or adhesives need not be provided where they are not a
required component of a tested fire resistance-rated assembly.
   Amend Section 704.4 Protection of secondary members as follows:
   704.4 Protection of secondary structural members. Secondary structural
members that are required to have protection to achieve a fire-resistance
rating shall be protected by individual encasement protection.
   A new Table 705.5 Fire-resistance Rating Requirements for Exterior Walls
Based on Fire Separation Distance is added as follows:
   TABLE 705.5
      FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTERIOR WALLS BASED ON FIRE
SEPARATION DISTANCEa, d, g
FIRE SEPARATION TYPE OF      OCCUPANCY GROUP OCCUPANCY GROUP OCCUPANCY GROUP A,
DISTANCE = X    CONSTRUCTION He              F-1, M, S-1f    B, E, F-2, I, Ri,
(feet)                                                       S-2, Uh
FIRE SEPARATION TYPE OF      OCCUPANCY GROUP OCCUPANCY GROUP OCCUPANCY GROUP
DISTANCE = X    CONSTRUCTION He              F-1, M, S-1f    A, B, E, F-2, I,
(feet)                                                       Ri, S-2, Uh
X < 5b          All          3               2               1
5 X < 10        IA, IVA      3               2               1
                Others       2               1               1
                IA, IB, IVA, 2               1               1c
10 X < 30       IVB
                IIB, VB      1               0               0
                Others       1               1               1c
X 30            All          0               0               0
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
   a.   Load-bearing exterior walls shall also comply with the fire-
resistance rating requirements of Table 601.
   b.   See Section 706.1.1 for party walls.
   c.   Open parking garages complying with Section 406 shall not be required
to have a fire-resistance rating.
   d.   The fire-resistance rating of an exterior wall is determined based
upon the fire separation distance of the exterior wall and the story in which
the wall is located.
   e.   For special requirements for Group H occupancies, see Section 415.6.
   f.   For special requirements for Group S aircraft hangars, see Section
412.3.1.
   g.   Where Table 705.8 permits nonbearing exterior walls with unlimited
area of unprotected openings, the required fire-resistance rating for the
exterior walls is 0 hours.
   h.   For a building containing only a Group U occupancy private garage or
carport, the exterior wall shall not be required to have a fire-resistance
rating where the fire separation distance is 5 feet (1523 mm) or greater.
   i.   For a Group R-3 building of Type II-B or Type V-B construction, the
exterior wall shall not be required to have a fire-resistance rating where
the fire separation distance is 5 feet (1523 mm) or greater.
 
   Add new Section 722.7 Fire-resistance rating for mass timber as follows:
   722.7 Fire-resistance rating for mass timber. The required fire resistance
of mass timber elements in Section 602.4 shall be determined in accordance with
   Section 703.2. The fire-resistance rating of building elements shall be as
required in Tables 601 and 705.5 and as specified elsewhere in this code. The
fire-resistance rating of the mass timber elements shall consist of the fire
resistance of the unprotected element added to the protection time of the
noncombustible protection.
   722.7.1 Minimum required protection. Where required by Sections 602.4.1
through 602.4.3, noncombustible protection shall be provided for mass timber
building elements in accordance with Table 722.7.1(1). The rating, in minutes,
contributed by the noncombustible protection of mass timber building elements,
components or assemblies, shall be established in accordance with Section
703.8. The protection contributions indicated in Table 722.7.1(2) shall be
deemed to comply with this requirement where installed and fastened in
accordance with Section 722.7.2.
   722.7.2 Installation of gypsum board noncombustible protection. Gypsum board
complying with Table 722.7.1(2) shall be installed in accordance with this
section.
   722.7.2.1 Interior surfaces. Layers of Type X gypsum board serving as
noncombustible protection for interior surfaces of wall and ceiling assemblies
determined in accordance with Table 722.7.1(1) shall be installed in accordance
with the following:
      1.   Each layer shall be attached with Type S drywall screws of
sufficient length to penetrate the mass timber at least 1 inch (25 mm) when
driven flush with the paper surface of the gypsum board.
   Exception: The third layer, where determined necessary by Section 722.7,
shall be permitted to be attached with 1-inch (25 mm) No. 6 Type S drywall
screws to furring channels in accordance with AISI S220.
      2.   Screws for attaching the base layer shall be 12 inches (305 mm) on
center in both directions.
      3.   Screws for each layer after the base layer shall be 12 inches (305
mm) on center in both directions and offset from the screws of the previous
layers by 4 inches (102 mm) in both directions.
      4.   All panel edges of any layer shall be offset 18 inches (457 mm) from
those of the previous layer.
      5.   All panel edges shall be attached with screws sized and offset as in
Items 1 through 4 and placed at least 1 inch (25 mm) but not more than 2 inches
(51 mm) from the panel edge.
      6.   All panels installed at wall-to-ceiling intersections shall be
installed such that ceiling panels are installed first and the wall panels are
installed after the ceiling panel has been installed and is fitted tight to the
ceiling panel. Where multiple layers are required, each layer shall repeat this
process.
      7.   All panels installed at a wall-to-wall intersection shall be
installed such that the panels covering an exterior wall or a wall with a
greater fire-resistance rating shall be installed first and the panels covering
the other wall shall be fitted tight to the panel covering the first wall.
Where multiple layers are required, each layer shall repeat this process.
      8.   Panel edges of the face layer shall be taped and finished with joint
compound. Fastener heads shall be covered with joint compound.
      9.   Panel edges protecting mass timber elements adjacent to unprotected
mass timber elements in accordance with Section 602.4.2.2 shall be covered with
11/4-inch (32 mm) metal corner bead and finished with joint compound.
   722.7.2.2 Exterior surfaces. Layers of Type X gypsum board serving as
noncombustible protection for the outside of the exterior mass timber walls
determined in accordance with Table 722.7.1(1) shall be fastened 12 inches (305
mm) on center each way and 6 inches (152 mm) on center at all joints or ends.
All panel edges shall be attached with fasteners located at least 1 inch (25
mm) but not more than 2 inches (51 mm) from the panel edge. Fasteners shall
comply with one of the following:
      1.   Galvanized nails of minimum 12 gage with a 7/16-inch (11 mm) head of
sufficient length to penetrate the mass timber a minimum of 1 inch (25 mm).
      2.   Screws that comply with ASTM C1002 (Type S, W or G) of sufficient
length to penetrate the mass timber a minimum of 1 inch (25 mm).
   A new Table 722.7.1(1) Protection Required from Noncombustible Covering
Material is added as follows:
   TABLE 722.7.1(1)
   PROTECTION REQUIRED FROM NONCOMBUSTIBLE COVERING MATERIAL
 
REQUIRED FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING OF BUILDING MINIMUM PROTECTION REQUIRED FROM
ELEMENT PER TABLE 601 AND TABLE 705.5       NONCOMBUSTIBLE PROTECTION (minutes)
(hours)
1                                           40
2                                           80
3 or more                                   120
 
   A new Table 722.7.1(2) Protection Provided by Noncombustible Covering
Material is added as follows:
   TABLE 722.7.1(2)
   PROTECTION PROVIDED BY NONCOMBUSTIBLE COVERING MATERIAL
 
NONCOMBUSTIBLE PROTECTION    PROTECTION CONTRIBUTION (minutes)
1/2-inch Type X gypsum board 25
5/8-inch Type X gypsum board 40
 
   H.   Chapter 16 "Structural Design" is amended as follows:
   1608.1 General. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Design snow loads shall be determined in accordance with chapter 7 of
ASCE 7, but the design roof load shall not be less than a uniform snow load of
twenty-five (25) psf. The minimum roof snow load for Ada County shall be
twenty-five (25) pounds per square foot. No reduction below that roof snow load
shall be permitted.
   1608.2 Ground snow loads. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      In Ada County, the minimum ground snow load Pg shall be twenty (20)
pounds per square foot. (Idaho State Climate Services, University of Idaho
Dept. of Agricultural Engineering, Moscow, Idaho 83844-2040. 208-885-7004.
www.uidaho.edu/climate.)
   1609.1.1 Determination of wind loads. Add a first sentence to the paragraph
as follows:
      In Ada County a minimum wind speed of one hundred fifteen (115) mph shall
be used.
   1612.1 General. Add a second paragraph as follows:
      Development within a designated flood hazard area shall be done in
conformance with the Ada County Code, Title 8, Chapter 3, Article F. Specific
flood hazard area inspection results and elevation documentation shall be
provided to Ada County in conformance to Ada County Code, Title 8, Chapter 3,
Article F.
   1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas. Replace bracketed "[]" text
areas with the following as appropriate: "Ada County, Idaho" and "June 19,
2020."
   I.   Chapter 17 "Special Inspections and Tests" is amended as follows:
   Add new Section 1705.5.3 Mass timber construction as follows:
   1705.5.3 Mass timber construction. Special inspections of mass timber
elements in Types IV-A, IV-B and IV-C construction shall be in accordance with
Table 1705.5.3.
   A new Table 1705.5.3 Required Special Inspections of Mass Timber
Construction is added as follows:
   TABLE 1705.5.3
   REQUIRED SPECIAL INSPECTIONS OF MASS TIMBER CONSTRUCTION
TYPE CONTINUOUS SPECIAL INSPECTION PERIODIC SPECIAL INSPECTION
TYPE                                        CONTINUOUS SPECIAL PERIODIC SPECIAL
                                            INSPECTION         INSPECTION
   Inspection of anchorage and connections
1. of mass timber construction to timber    -                  X
   deep foundation systems.
2. Inspect erection of mass timber          -                  X
   construction.
   Inspection of connections where
3. installation methods are required to
   meet design loads.
                      Verify use of proper
                      installation          -                  X
                      equipment.
                      Verify use of pre-
                      drilled holes where   -                  X
   Threaded fasteners required.
                      Inspect screws,
                      including diameter,
                      length, head type,    -                  X
                      spacing, installation
                      angle and depth.
   Adhesive anchors installed in horizontal
   or upwardly inclined orientation to      X                  -
   resist sustained tension loads.
   Adhesive anchors not defined in          -                  X
   preceding cell.
   Bolted connections.                      -                  X
   Concealed connections.                   -                  X
 
   Add new section 1705.19 Sealing of mass timber as follows:
   1705.19 Sealing of mass timber. Periodic special inspections of sealants or
adhesives shall be conducted where sealant or adhesive required by Section
703.9 is applied to mass timber building elements as designated in the approved
construction documents.
   J.   Chapter 23 "Wood" is amended as follows:
   A new Section 2304.10.5.5 Connection fire-resistance rating is added as
follows:
   2304.10.5.5 Connection fire-resistance rating. Fire-resistance ratings for
connections in Type IV-A, IV-B, or IV-C construction shall be determined by one
of the following:
      1.   Testing in accordance with Section 703.2 where the connection is
part of the fire resistance test.
      2.   Engineering analysis that demonstrates that the temperature rise at
any portion of the connection is limited to an average temperature rise of
250°F (139°C), and a maximum temperature rise of 325°F (181°C), for a time
corresponding to the required fire-resistance rating of the structural element
being connected. For the purposes of this analysis, the connection includes
connectors, fasteners, and portions of wood members included in the structural
design of the connection.
   K.   Chapter 29 "Plumbing Systems" is amended as follows:
   Table 2902.1 Minimum Number of Required Plumbing Fixtures. Delete footnote
(e) contained under Table 2902.1 and replace with new foot note (e) and add new
footnote (g) in header row of table column labeled “Drinking Fountains,” to
read as follows:
      e. For business occupancies, excluding restaurants, and mercantile
occupancies with an occupant load of thirty (30) or fewer, service sinks shall
not be required.
      f.   Drinking fountains are not required for an occupant load of thirty
(30) or fewer.
   L.   Chapter 33 "Safeguards During Construction" is amended as follows:
   Section 3313 "Water Supply for Fire Protection" is amended as follows:
   3313.1 Where required. An approved water supply for fire protection, either
temporary or permanent, shall be made available as soon as combustible building
materials arrive on the site, on commencement of vertical combustible
construction, and on installation of a standpipe system in buildings under
construction, in accordance with Sections 3313.2 through 3313.5.
   Exception: The fire code official is authorized to reduce the fire-flow
requirements for isolated buildings or a group of buildings in rural areas or
small communities where the development of full fire-flow requirements is
impractical.
   3313.2 Combustible building materials. When combustible building materials
of the building under construction are delivered to a site, a minimum fire flow
of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m) shall be provided. The fire hydrant used
to provide this fire flow supply shall be within 500 feet (152 m) of the
combustible building materials, as measured along an approved fire apparatus
access lane. Where the site configuration is such that one fire hydrant cannot
be located within 500 feet (152 m) of all combustible building materials,
additional fire hydrants shall be required to provide coverage in accordance
with this section.
   3313.3 Vertical construction of Types III, IV and V construction. Prior to
commencement of vertical construction of Type III, IV or V buildings that
utilize any combustible building materials, the fire flow required by Sections
3313.3.1 through 3313.3.3 shall be provided, accompanied by fire hydrants in
sufficient quantity to deliver the required fire flow and proper coverage.
   3313.3.1 Fire separation up to 30 feet. Where a building of Type III, IV or
V construction has a fire separation distance of less than 30 feet (9144 mm)
from property lot lines, and an adjacent property has an existing structure or
otherwise can be built on, the water supply shall provide either a minimum of
500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m), or the entire fire flow required for the
building when constructed, whichever is greater.
   3313.3.2 Fire separation of 30 feet up to 60 feet. Where a building of Type
III, IV or V construction has a fire separation distance of 30 feet (9144 mm)
up to 60 feet (18 288 mm) from property lot lines, and an adjacent property has
an existing structure or otherwise can be built on, the water supply shall
provide a minimum of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m), or 50 percent of the
fire flow required for the building when constructed, whichever is greater.
   3313.3.3 Fire separation of 60 feet or greater. Where a building of Type
III, IV or V construction has a fire separation of 60 feet (18 288 mm) or
greater from a property lot line, a water supply of 500 gallons per minute
(1893 L/m) shall be provided.
   3313.4 Standpipe supply. Regardless of the presence of combustible building
materials, the construction type or the fire separation distance, where a
standpipe is required in accordance with Section 3313, a water supply providing
a minimum flow of 500 gallons per minute (1893 L/m) shall be provided. The fire
hydrant used for this water supply shall be located within 100 feet (30 480 mm)
of the fire department connection supplying the standpipe.
   Section 3314.1 Fire watch during combustible construction is deleted and a
new section 3314.1 Fire watch during combustible construction is added as
follows:
   3314.1 Fire watch during combustible construction. A fire watch shall be
provided during nonworking hours for construction that exceeds 40 feet (12 192
mm) in height above the lowest adjacent grade at any point along the building
perimeter, for new multistory construction with an aggregate area exceeding
50,000 square feet (4645 m2) per story or as required by the fire code
official.
   M.   Chapter 35 "Referenced Standards" is amended as follows:
   Add in under the "APA" reference section the "ANSI/APA PRG 320-2019:
Standard for Performance-rated Cross-laminated Timber 602.4, 2303.1.4" as
follows:
   APA
   ANSI/APA PRG 320-2019: Standard for Performance-rated Cross-laminated Timber
602.4, 2303.1.4
   Add in under the ASTM reference section the "D3498-03(2011): Standard
Specification for Adhesives for Field-Gluing Plywood to Lumber Framing for
Floor Systems 703.7" and change the reference of "703.7" to "703.9" to be
consistent with 2018 IBC numbering for adding a new section as follows:
   ASTM
   D3498-03(2011): Standard Specification for Adhesives for Field-Gluing
Plywood to Lumber Framing for Floor Systems 703.9. (Ord. 498, 3-25-2003; amd.
Ord. 560, 8-24-2004; amd. Ord. 592, 8-2-2005; amd. Ord. 678, 11-13-2007; amd.
Ord. 725, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 748, 4-28-2010; amd. Ord. 781, 5-17-2011; amd.
Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 836, 1-6-2015; amd. Ord. 879, 2-13-2018; amd.
Ord. 919, 2-16-2021; amd. Ord. 935, 3-11-2022)
7-2-5: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The International Residential Code, 2018 edition, as adopted, is hereby amended
as follows:
   A.   Chapter 1 "Scope and Administration" is amended as follows:
   R101.1 Title. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the following: "Ada County."
   R101.2 Scope. Amend the subsection by deleting the Exception in its entirety
and add a new exception as follows:
      Exception: The following shall also be permitted to be constructed in
accordance with this code:
      1.   Owner-occupied lodging houses with five (5) or fewer guestrooms and
ten (10) or fewer occupants.
      2.   A care facility with five (5) persons receiving custodial care
within a dwelling unit or single-family dwelling.
      3.   A care facility for five (5) or fewer persons receiving personal
care that are within a dwelling unit or single-family dwelling.
      4.   A care facility with twelve (12) or fewer children receiving day
care within a dwelling unit or single-family dwelling.
   R102.7 Existing structures. Amend paragraph as follows:
      The legal occupancy of any structure existing on the date of the adoption
of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is
specifically covered in this code, or as is deemed necessary by the building
official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants or the public.
   R104.8 Liability. Delete subsection.
   R104.10.1 Flood hazard areas. Delete sentence and replace with the
following:
      Development within a designated flood hazard area shall be done in
conformance with the Ada County Code, Title 8, Chapter 3, Article F. Specific
flood hazard area inspection results and elevation documentation shall be
provided to Ada County in conformance to that section of the Ada County Code,
Title 8, Chapter 3, Article F.
   R105.1 Required. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or
to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any gas
or mechanical system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or
to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the building
official and obtain the required permit.
      An Ada County building division permit is issued to the owner of the
property and remains tied to the specific property even as the ownership may
change. The applicant for any Ada County building division permit is, by
definition, a representative of the property owner and as such may not have
individual control or ownership of that specific permit.
   R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Amend the list of "Building" exemptions from
permit requirements, delete "Electrical" and “Plumbing” exemptions in their
entirety as follows:
      Building:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 200
square feet (18.58 m2).
      2.   Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high may be exempted from the
requirement for a building permit in the absence of any other applicable land
use regulations governing the installation, height, type or other aspect.
      3.   Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height
measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge.
      4.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons (18,927 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width
does not exceed 2 to 1.
      5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
      6.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      7.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are not greater than four (4) feet
(1219 mm) deep.
      8.   Swings and other playground equipment.
      9.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project
more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support.
      10.   Decks that are not more than thirty (30) inches (762 mm) above
grade at any point, and do not serve the exit door required by Section R311.4.
      11.   Flag poles.
      12.   Roof repair, including complete replacement of roof coverings, in
association with one- and two-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
      13.   Siding repair or replacement when fire resistance is not reduced in
association with one- and two-family dwellings and their accessory structures.
      14.   Miscellaneous work including the following, provided no changes are
made to the building envelope: patio and concrete slabs on grade, paneling or
other surface finishes over existing wall and ceiling systems, insulating
existing buildings, abatement of hazardous materials, and in-kind or similar
replacement of or repair of deteriorated members of a structure.
      15.   Shade structures such as gazeboes and arbors when the roof covering
will not provide weather protection and will not allow a snow load to develop.
      16.   Commercially available membrane structures, erected according to
manufacturer's instructions, intended to provide weather protection for
automobiles and recreational vehicles.
      17.   Buildings or structures used to facilitate construction projects.
These buildings shall be removed from the property prior to the issuance of any
Certificate of Occupancy.
      18.   Freestanding solar collectors not greater than two hundred (200)
square feet or not more than ten (10) feet above grade.
      Delete "Electrical" section in its entirety.
      Delete “Plumbing” section in its entirety.
   R105.2.2 Repairs. Delete subsection.
   R105.3.2 Time limitation of application. Delete paragraph and replace with
the following:
      Applications for which no permit is issued within one hundred eighty
(180) days following the date of eligibility for permit issuance shall expire
by limitation, and plans and other data submitted for review may thereafter be
returned to the applicant or destroyed by the building official.
      The building official may extend the time for action by the applicant for
a period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) calendar days on request by the
applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have
prevented action from being taken. No application shall be extended more than
once. In order to renew action on an application after expiration, the
applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   R105.5 Expiration. Add a second paragraph to section as follows:
      If work has not been completed, the final inspection performed and the
project approved for occupancy or use within three (3) years from the date of
such permit being issued, such permit shall expire by limitation and become
null and void. Prior to work recommencing after the permit has expired, a new
permit shall be obtained. The cost of the new permit, if obtained within one
year of the original permit expiration, shall be one half (1/2) of the cost of
a new permit for the remaining work required to complete the structure or
project.
   R106.1 Submittal documents. Amend subsection as follows:
      Submittal documents consisting of construction documents, and other data
shall be submitted in one complete set in digital format with each application
for a permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered
design professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which
the project is to be constructed. Where special conditions exist, the building
official is authorized to require additional construction documents to be
prepared by a registered design professional.
   R107.1 General. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      The building official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary
structures and temporary uses. Such permits shall be limited as to time of
service; service less than thirty (30) days shall not require a permit, and
service over thirty (30) days shall require a permit but shall not be permitted
for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. Permits for temporary structures
shall bear fees identical to permanent structures. The building official is
authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
   R108.3 Building permit valuations. Add a second paragraph as follows:
      The building permit valuation upon which the Ada County building permit
fee is based shall be the project valuation as stated by the Ada County
building permit applicant or the calculated value using the building division
fees as adopted by the Board of Ada County Commissioners, whichever valuation
is greatest.
   R108.4 Related fees. Add a second paragraph as follows:
      If work is commenced without first obtaining a required Ada County
building permit, an investigative fee equal to the Ada County permit fee for
the work accomplished illegally, shall be paid Ada County prior to the
acceptance of an Ada County building permit application. This fee is an
additional fee and shall not apply to any fee for any Ada County building
permit that may subsequently be issued. Payment of the investigative fee does
not vest the illegal work with any legitimacy, nor does it establish any right
to an Ada County permit for continued development of that project.
   R108.5 Refunds. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Eighty percent (80%) of the plan review fee shall be available for refund
if no plan review has begun. Eighty percent (80%) of the building permit fee
shall be available for refund if no work has begun on the project. All requests
for fee refunds must be made to the Ada County building official in writing and
must be made within thirty (30) days of payment of the fee in question in order
to be eligible for a refund.
   R109.1.3 Floodplain inspections. Delete paragraph and replace with the
following:
      For construction in areas prone to flooding as established by Table
R301.2(1), upon placement of the lowest floor, including basement, the building
official is authorized to require submission of documentation of the elevation
of the lowest floor, including basement, required in section R322.
      Development within a designated flood hazard area shall be done in
conformance with the Ada County Code, Title 8, Chapter 3, Article F. Specific
flood hazard area inspection results and elevation documentation shall be
provided to Ada County in conformance to that section of the Ada County Code,
Title 8, Chapter 3, Article F.
   R112 Board of Appeals. Delete subsections R112.1, R112.2, R112.2.1,
R112.2.2, R112.3 and R112.4 in their entirety and replace with the following
new subsection R112.1:
      R112.1 General. Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada
County Building Board of Appeals. Appeals shall be heard as set out in Ada
County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1.
   R113.4 Violation penalties. Amend the subsection as follows:
      Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply with
any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a
building or structure in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate issued under
the provisions of this code, shall be subject to the penalties as prescribed by
law in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   R114.2 Unlawful continuance. Delete paragraph and replace with the
following:
      Any person who shall continue any work in or about the building or
structure after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7,
Chapter 2.
   B.   Chapter 2 "Definitions" is amended as follows:
   R202 Definitions. Add new definitions as follows:
      AREA, BUILDING. The area included within surrounding exterior walls (or
exterior walls and fire walls) exclusive of vent shafts and courts. Areas of
the building not provided with surrounding walls shall be included in the
building area if such areas are included within the horizontal projection of
the roof or floor above.
      BUILDING FACE. Foundation wall face or face of exterior wall member not
including sheathing, siding or trim.
      PERMIT APPLICANT. The property owner or the individual that legally
represents a property owner seeking permission from Ada County to construct a
building or structure on a specific piece of property.
   C.   Chapter 3 "Building Planning" is amended as follows:
   R301.2 Climatic and geographic design criteria. Amend subsection to add a
second paragraph as follows:
      The minimum roof snow load for Ada County shall be twenty-five (25)
pounds per square foot. No reduction below that roof snow load shall be
permitted.
   R301.2.1.2 Protection of openings. Delete R301.2.1.2 in its entirety.
   Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria. Delete Table R301.2
(1) in its entirety and replace with the following Table R301.2(1):
   TABLE R301.2(1)
   CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
           Wind Design       Seismic  Subject To Damage From     Winter Ice Barrier           Air      Mean
Ground     Speed Topographic Design              Frost           Design Underlayment Flood    Freezing Annual
Snow Load  (mph) Effects     Category Weathering Line   Termite  Temp   Required     Hazards  Index    Temp
                                                 Depth
Ground
snow load
Pg shall
be 20
pounds per
square                                                                               Date of
foot. The                                                                            adoption
minimum                                                                              1/30/
roof snow                                                                            1980.
load shall 115   No          C        Severe     24     Slight   10°F  No           Date of  894      51.1
be 25      mph                                   inches Moderate                     current
pounds per                                                                           FIRM
square                                                                               6/19/
foot. No                                                                             2020.
reduction
below that
roof snow
load shall
be
permitted.
 
   Table R302.1(1) Exterior Walls. Delete Table R302.1(1) in its entirety and
replace with the following Table R302.1(1):
   TABLE R302.1(1)
   EXTERIOR WALLS
Exterior Wall Element Minimum Fire-     Minimum Fire Separation Distance
                      Resistance Rating
Exterior Wall Element      Minimum Fire-               Minimum Fire Separation
                           Resistance Rating           Distance
Walls                                                  
                           1 hour-tested in accordance
                           with ASTM E 119 or UL 263
 (Fire-resistance rated)  or section 703.3 of the     <3 feet
                           International Building Code
                           with exposure from both
                           sides
 (Not fire-resistance     0 hours                     3 feet
  rated)
Projections                                            
                           1 hour on the underside, or
 (Fire-resistance rated)  heavy timber, or fire-      2 feet to <3 feet
                           retardant-treated wooda,b
 (Not fire-resistance     0 hours                     3 feet
  rated)
Openings in walls                                       
 Not allowed              n/a                         <3 feet
 25% maximum of wall area 0 hours                     3 feet to <5 feet
 Unlimited                0 hours                     5 feet
Penetrations                                           
 All                      Comply with section R302.4  <3 feet
                          None required               3 feet
 
   For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
   n/a = Not Applicable.
      a.   The fire-resistance rating shall be permitted to be reduced to zero
(0) hours on the underside of the eave overhang if fireblocking is provided
from the wall top plate to the underside of the roof sheathing.
      b.   The fire-resistance rating shall be permitted to be reduced to zero
(0) hours on the underside of the rake overhang where gable vent openings are
not installed.
   Table R302.6 Dwelling Garage Separation. Delete Table 302.6 and replace with
the following table:
TABLE R302.6
DWELLING GARAGE SEPARATION
 
SEPARATION                              MATERIAL
From the residence, attics, and
habitable rooms above the garage        Not less than 5/8-inch Type X gypsum
Structure(s) supporting floor/ceiling   board or equivalent applied to the
assemblies used for separation required garage side
by this section
                                        Not less than 5/8-inch Type X gypsum
Garages located less than 3 feet from a board or equivalent applied to the
dwelling unit on the same lot           interior side of exterior walls that
                                        are within this area
 
   R302.13 Fire protection of floors. Delete section.
   R303.4 Mechanical ventilation. Delete sentence and replace with the
following:
      Dwelling units shall be provided with whole-house mechanical ventilation
in accordance with Section M1505.4.
   R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems. Delete the exception in
its entirety and replace with the following:
      Exception: Automatic residential fire sprinkler systems shall not be
required in townhouses where either two (2) one (1)-hour fire-resistance-rated
walls or a common two (2)-hour fire-resistance rated wall, as specified in item
number 2 of section R302.2.2 is installed between dwelling units or when
additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do not have an
automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.
   R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire systems. Delete section.
   R314.2.2 Alteration, repairs and additions. Delete the Exceptions and
replace with the following:
      Exceptions:
      1.   Work involving the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not
limited to, replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of
windows and doors, or the addition of a porch or deck, or electrical permits,
are exempt from the requirements of this section.
      2.   Installation, alteration or repairs of plumbing or mechanical
systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   R315.2.2 Alteration, repairs and additions. Delete the Exceptions and
replace with the following:
      1.   Work involving the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not
limited to, replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of
windows and doors, or the addition of a porch or deck, or electrical permits,
are exempt from the requirements of this section.
      2.   Installation, alteration or repairs of noncombustion plumbing or
mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   R322 Flood-resistant Construction. Delete the section in its entirety and
replace with new section R322 as follows:
      R322 Flood-resistant Construction.
      R322.1 General. Development within a designated flood hazard area shall
be done in conformance with the Ada County Code, Title 8, Chapter 3, Article F.
Specific flood hazard area inspection results and evaluation documentation
shall be provided to Ada County in conformance to Ada County Code, Title 8,
Chapter 3, Article F.
   D.   Chapter 4 Foundations is amended as follows: Tables R403.1(1), R403.1
(2), and R403.1(3) are deleted and a new Table R403.1 ‘Minimum width of
concrete, precast, or masonry footings (inches)’ is added as follows:
   Table R403.1
   MINIMUM WIDTH OF CONCRETE, PRECAST, OR MASONRY FOOTINGS
   (INCHES)
   Load-Bearing Value of Soil (psf)
       1,500 2,000 3,000 4,000
   Conventional light-frame construction
1-story 12    12    12    12
2-story 15    12    12    12
3-story 23    17    12    12
   4-inch brick veneer over light frame or 8-inch hollow concrete masonry
1-story 12    12    12    12
2-story 21    16    12    12
3-story 32    24    16    12
   8-inch solid or fully grouted masonry
1-story 16    12    12    12
2-story 29    21    14    12
3-story 42    32    21    16
 
   R403.1.1 Minimum size. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      Minimum sizes for concrete and masonry footings shall be as set forth in
Table R403.1 and Figure R403.1(1). The footing width (W) shall be based on the
load bearing value of the soil in accordance with Table R401.4.1. Spread
footings shall be at least six (6) inches in thickness (T). Footings
projections (P) shall be at least two (2) inches and shall not exceed the
thickness of the footing. The size of footings supporting piers and columns
shall be based on the tributary load and allowable soil pressure in accordance
with Table 401.4.1. Footings for wood foundations shall be in accordance with
the details set forth in Section R403.2 and Figures R403.1(2) and R403.1(3).
   E.   Chapter 6 "Wall Construction" is amended as follows:
   R602.10 Wall bracing. Amend paragraph as follows:
      Buildings shall be braced in accordance with this section or, when
applicable section R602.12, or the most current edition of APA System Report
SR-102 as an alternate method. Where a building, or portion thereof, does not
comply with one (1) or more of the bracing requirements in this section, those
portions shall be designated and constructed in accordance with section R301.1.
   F.   Chapter 12 “Mechanical Administration” is amended as follows:
   Add a new section M1201.3 as follows:
      M1201.3 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction
equipment. The provisions of this part of the code are not intended to prevent
the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of
construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such
alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design or method of
construction must be approved where the authority having jurisdiction finds
that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for
the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code.
Compliance with the specific performance-based provisions of this part of the
code in lieu of specific requirements of this code will also be permitted as an
alternate.
   Add a new section M1201.3.1 as follows:
      M1201.3.1 Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance
with the provisions of this part of the code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this part of the code, or in
order to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the
authority having jurisdiction has the authority to require tests as evidence of
compliance to be made at no expense to the jurisdiction. Test methods are as
specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of
recognized and accepted test methods, the authority having jurisdiction
approves the testing procedures. Tests must be performed by an approved agency.
Reports of such test must be retained by the authority having jurisdiction for
the period required for retention of public records.
   Add a new section M1203.1 as follows:
      M1203.1 Carbon monoxide alarms. For new construction, an approved carbon
monoxide alarm must be installed outside of each separate sleeping area in the
immediate vicinity of the bedrooms in dwelling units within which fuel-fired
appliances are installed and in dwelling units that have attached garages.
   Add a new section M1203.2 as follows:
      M1203.2 Where required in existing dwellings. Where work requiring a
permit occurs in existing dwellings that have attached garages or in existing
dwellings within which fuel-fired appliances exist, carbon monoxide alarms must
be provided in accordance with R315.
   Add a new section M1203.3 as follows:
      M1203.3 Alarm requirements. Single station carbon monoxide alarms must be
listed as complying with UL 2034 and must be installed in accordance with this
code and the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
   G.   Chapter 15 "Exhaust Systems" is amended as follows:
   M1502.4.1 Material and size. Add the following exception:
      Exception: Dryer duct may be constructed of 0.013 (30 gauge) or
equivalent if prefabricated 0.016 (28 gauge) ducts and fittings are not
available.
   M1502.4.2 Duct installation. Delete paragraph and replace with new paragraph
as follows:
      Exhaust ducts shall be supported at four (4) foot (1,219 mm) intervals
and secured in place. The insert end of the duct shall extend into the
adjoining duct or fitting in the direction of airflow. Ducts shall not be
joined with screws or similar fasteners that protrude into the inside of the
duct.
   H.   Chapter 16 "Duct Systems" is amended as follows:
   Table M1601.1.1 Duct Construction Minimum Sheet Metal Thickness for Single
Dwelling Units. Add the following exception:
      Exception: Round duct, enclosed rectangular ducts and fittings less than
fourteen (14) inches may be constructed of 0.013 (30 gauge) or equivalent if
prefabricated 0.016 (28 gauge) ducts and fittings are not available.
   I.   Chapter 24 "Fuel Gas" is amended as follows:
   Add a new section G2402.4 (201.4) is amended as follows:
      G2402.4 (301.4) Alternative materials, design and methods of construction
equipment. The provisions of this part of the code are not intended to prevent
the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of
construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such
alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design or method of
construction must be approved where the authority having jurisdiction finds
that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
provision of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for
the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code.
Compliance with the specific performance-based provisions of this part of the
code in lieu of specific requirements of this code will also be permitted as an
alternate.
   Add a new section G2402.4.1 (201.4.1) as follows:
      G2402.4.1 (201.4.1) Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this part of the code, or evidence that a
material or method does not conform to the requirements of this part of the
code, or in order to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods,
the authority having jurisdiction has the authority to require test as evidence
of compliance to be made at no expense to the jurisdiction. Test methods are as
specified in this code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of
recognized and accepted test methods, the authority having jurisdiction
approves the testing procedures. Tests must be performed by an approved agency.
Reports of such tests must be retained by the authority having jurisdiction for
the period required for retention of public records.
   G2417.4 (406.4). Test pressure management. Delete the last sentence and
replace with the following:
      Mechanical gauges used to measure test pressure shall have a range such
that the highest end of the scale is not greater than two (2) times the test
pressure nor lower than one and one-half (1.5) times the test pressure.
   G2417.4.1 (406.4.1) Test pressure. Delete paragraph and replace with new
paragraph as follows:
      Not less than twenty (20) psig (140kPa gauge) test pressure shall be
required for systems with a maximum working pressure up to ten (10) inches
water column. For systems with a maximum working pressure between ten (10)
inches water column and ten (10) psig (70kPa gauge); not less than sixty (60)
psig (420kPa gauge) test pressure shall be required. For systems over ten (10)
psig (70kPa gauge) working pressure, minimum test pressure shall be no less
than six (6) times working pressure.
   G2417.4.2 (406.4.2) Test duration. Amend sentence as follows:
      The test duration may not be less than twenty (20) minutes.
   Add new subsection G2427.4.1.2 (503.4.1.2) as follows:
      G2427.4.1.2 (503.4.1.2) Testing. All plastic pipe within a dwelling used
for venting flue gases shall be tested at five (5) psi for fifteen (15)
minutes.     
(Ord. 498, 3-25-2003; amd. Ord. 560, 8-24-2004; amd. Ord. 592, 8-2-2005; amd.
Ord. 678, 11-13-2007; amd. Ord. 725, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 748, 4-28-2010; amd.
Ord. 781, 5-17-2011; amd. Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 836, 1-6-2015; amd.
Ord. 879, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 919, 2-16-2021; amd. Ord. 935, 3-11-2022; amd.
Ord. 984, 10-22-2024)
7-2-6: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, including appendix “A” (herein
IMC) as adopted, is hereby amended as follows:
   A.   Chapter 1 "Scope and Administration" is amended as follows:
   101.1 Title. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the following: "Ada County."
   103.2 Appointment. Amend as follows:
      The building official appointed by the County shall be the code official
for purposes of enforcing this code.
   103.4 Liability. Delete section in its entirety.
   106.5.2 Fee schedule. Delete sentence and bracketed "[]" text and replace
with the following:
      The fees for mechanical permits shall be as adopted by the Board of Ada
County Commissioners.
   106.5.3 Fee refunds. Delete subsection and replace with new subsection
106.5.3 as follows:
      106.5.3 Fee refunds. Refunds of fees may be authorized by the code
official as set forth in the refund schedule as adopted by the Board of Ada
County Commissioners.
   108.4 Violation penalties. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      Violations of the provisions or requirements of this code shall be
subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   108.5 Stop work orders. Amend section as follows:
      Upon notice from the code official that mechanical work is being done
contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner,
such work shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the property, or to the owner's agent, or to the person
doing the work. The notice shall state the conditions under which work is
authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be
required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who
shall continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the penalties as set forth
in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   109 Means of appeal. Delete section in its entirety and replace with new
section 109 as follows:
      SECTION 109 MEANS OF APPEAL
      109.1 General. Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada
County Building Board of Appeals. All appeals shall be heard pursuant to Ada
County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1.
   B.   Chapter 2 Definitions.
   Section 202 Definitions. Delete the Chapter 2 definitions of “Light-Duty
Cooking Appliance” and “Medium-Duty Cooking Appliance” and replace with the
following:
      Light-Duty Cooking Appliance. Light-duty cooking appliances include gas
and electric ovens (including standard, bake, roasting, revolving, retherm,
convection, combination convection/steamer, countertop conveyorized baking/
finishing, deck, pastry, and electric and gas conveyor pizza ovens), electric
and gas steam jacketed kettles, electric and gas pasta cookers, electric and
gas compartment steamers (both pressure and atmospheric) and electric and gas
cheesemelters.
      Medium-Duty Cooking Appliance. Medium-duty cooking appliances include
electric discrete element ranges (with or without oven), electric and gas hot-
top ranges, electric and gas griddles, electric and gas double sided griddles,
electric and gas fryers (including open deep fat fryers, donut fryers, kettle
fryers and pressure fryers), electric and gas tilting skillets (braising pans)
and electric and gas rotisseries.
   C.   Chapter 4 "Ventilation" is amended as follows:
   401.1 Scope. Add the following exception:
      Exception: The principles specified in ASHREA 62-2010 may be used as an
alternative to this chapter to demonstrate compliance with required ventilation
air for occupants.
   D.   Chapter 5 "Exhaust" is amended as follows:
   504.8.1 Material and size. Add the following exception:
      Exception: Dryer duct may be constructed of 0.013 (30 gauge) or
equivalent if prefabricated 0.016 (28 gauge) ducts and fittings are not
available.
   E.   Chapter 6 "Duct Systems" is amended as follows:
      Table 603.4 Duct Construction Minimum Sheet Metal Thickness for Single
Dwelling Units. Add the following Exception to the Table as follows:
      Exception: Round duct, enclosed rectangular ducts and fittings less than
fourteen (14) inches may be constructed of 0.013 (30 gauge) or equivalent if
prefabricated 0.016 (28 gauge) ducts and fittings are not available. (Ord. 498,
3-25-2003; amd. Ord. 592, 8-2-2005; amd. Ord. 678, 11-13-2007; amd. Ord. 725,
5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 728, 5-26-2009; amd. Ord. 748, 4-28-2010; amd. Ord. 781, 5-
17-2011; amd. Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 836, 1-6-2015; amd. Ord. 879, 2-13-
2018; amd. Ord. 919, 2-16-2021; amd. Ord. 935, 3-11-2022)
7-2-7: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, including appendixes “A, B, C,
and D” (herein IFGC) as adopted, is hereby amended as follows:
   A.   Chapter 1 "Scope and Administration" is amended as follows:
   101.1 Title. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the following: "Ada County."
   103.2 Appointment. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      The building official appointed by the County shall be the code official
for purposes of enforcing this code.
   103.4 Liability. Delete section.
   104.7 Department records. Add a third sentence as follows:
      Ada County shall keep official records of fuel gas inspections as part of
a validly issued mechanical code permit.
   106.6.2 Fee schedule. Delete sentence and replace with new sentence as
follows:
      Fees for inspections authorized under this code are part of a validly
issued Ada County Mechanical Permit fee as adopted by the Board of Ada County
Commissioners.
   106.6.3 Fee refunds. Delete subsection and replace with new subsection
106.6.3 as follows:
      106.6.3 Fee refunds. Refunds may be authorized as part of the Mechanical
Permit fee schedule as adopted by the Board of Ada County Commissioners.
   108.4 Violation penalties. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      Violations of the provisions or requirements of this code shall be
subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   108.5 Stop work orders. Amend subsection as follows:
      Upon notice from the code official that work is being done contrary to
the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall
immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, the owner's agent, or the person doing the work. The
notice shall state the conditions under which work is authorized to resume.
Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a
written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any
work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter
2.
   109 Means of Appeal. Delete section in its entirety and replace with new
section 109 as follows:
      SECTION 109 (IFGC) MEANS OF APPEAL
      109.1 General. Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada
County Building Board of Appeals. All appeals shall be heard pursuant to Ada
County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1.
   B.   Chapter 4 "Gas Piping Installations" is amended as follows:
   406.4 Test pressure measurement. Amend paragraph as follows:
      Test pressure shall be measured with a manometer or with a pressure-
measuring device designed and calibrated to read, record or indicate a pressure
loss caused by leakage during the pressure test period. The source of pressure
shall be isolated before the pressure tests are made. Mechanical gauges used to
measure test pressures shall have a range such that the highest end of the
scale is not greater than two (2) times the test pressure nor lower than one
and one-half (1.5) times the test pressure.
   406.4.1. Test pressure. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      Not less than twenty (20) psig (140kPa gauge) test pressure shall be
required for systems with a maximum working pressure up to ten (10) inches
water column. For systems with a maximum working pressure between ten (10)
inches water column and ten (10) psig (70kPa gauge); not less than sixty (60)
psig (420kPa gauge) test pressure shall be required. For systems over ten (10)
psig (70kPa gauge) working pressure, minimum test pressure shall be no less
than six (6) times working pressure.
   406.4.2 Test duration. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      The test duration shall not be less than twenty (20) minutes.
   C.   Chapter 5 "Chimneys and Vents" is amended as follows:
   503.4 Type of venting system to be used. Add new subsection 503.4.1.2 as
follows:
      503.4.1.2 Testing. All plastic pipe within a dwelling used for venting
flue gases shall be tested at five (5) psi for fifteen (15) minutes.
   505.1.1 Commercial Cooking appliances vented by exhaust hoods is amended by
adding second exception as follows:
      Exception: An interlock between the cooking appliance and the exhaust
hood system is not required for appliances that are of the manually operated
type and are factory equipped with standing pilot burner ignition systems.
(Ord. 498, 3-25-2003; amd. Ord. 725, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 728, 5-26-2009; amd.
Ord. 781, 5-17-2011; amd. Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 836, 1-6-2015; amd.
Ord. 879, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 919, 2-16-2021)
7-2-8: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
CODE:
   A.   The commercial provisions of the 2018 International Energy Conservation
Code, as adopted, are hereby amended as follows:
      1.   Chapter 1 (CE) "Scope and Administration" is amended as follows:
   C101.1 Title. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the following: "Ada County."
   C101.5 Compliance. Add new subsection C101.5.2 as follows:
      C101.5.2 Industrial, electronic, and manufacturing equipment. Buildings
or portions thereof that are heated or cooled exclusively to maintain the
required operating temperature of industrial, electronic, or manufacturing
equipment shall be exempt from the provisions of this code. Such buildings or
portions thereof shall be separated from connected conditioned space by
building thermal envelope assemblies complying with this code.
   C104.1 Fees. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Fees and permits issued shall be part of a validly issued Ada County
Building Code Permit.
   C104.5 Refunds. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Refunds may be issued as part of a refund of fees paid for an Ada County
Building Code Permit.
   C108.4 Failure to comply. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the penalties as
set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   C109 Board of Appeals. Delete section in its entirety and replace with new
section C109 as follows:
      SECTION C109 BOARD OF APPEALS
      C109.1 General. Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada
County Building Board of Appeals. All appeals shall be heard pursuant to Ada
County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1.
   Add a new Section C110 Violations as follows:
      SECTION C110 VIOLATIONS
      C110.1 Violations. Violations of the provisions or requirements of this
code shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title
7, Chapter 2.
      2.   Chapter 2 "Definitions" is amended as follows:
      C202 "General Definitions" is amended to add new definitions as follows:
         LISTING AGENCY. A person, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation which is in the business of listing or labeling and which maintains
a periodic inspection program on current production of listed materials, and
which makes available, not less frequently than annually, a published report of
such listing in which specific information is included that the product has
been tested to nationally approved standards and found safe for use in a
specified manner.
      MINOR ALTERATION. The following definition is used for the purpose of
administering annual permits.
         a.   Minor alterations shall include, but are not limited to, the
following: partition walls constructed within a defined room; relocation of or
existing openings or installation of new doors and windows in non-load bearing
walls and not in construction meant to compartmentalize fire; window
replacement in unaltered existing openings; roof repairs involving installation
of less than one hundred (100) square feet of new roof covering; and new
suspended ceilings that are not part of a required fire resistive assembly.
         b.   Minor alterations shall not include: work that alters the fire
resistive characteristics of the building or fire suppression systems; work
that creates new openings in construction meant to compartmentalize fire such
as fire walls, fire barriers, fore partitions, smoke barriers, smoke
partitions, horizontal assemblies, shaft enclosures, stair enclosures; work
that increases the floor area or height of the building; work that changes the
structural load path of the building for gravity or horizontal loads; work that
reduces the thermal resistant capacity of the building envelop; changes in the
occupancy classification of the building or space; increases in the floor
loads.
      3.   Chapter 4 (CE) "Commercial Energy Efficiency" is amended as follows:
      C402.1.1 Low-energy buildings. Amend the subsection as follows:
         The following low-energy buildings, or portions thereof separated from
the remainder of the building by building thermal envelope assemblies complying
with this section, shall be exempt from the building thermal envelope
provisions of Section C402.
         1.    Those with a peak design rate of energy usage less than 3.4 Btu/
h • ft2 (10.7 W/m2) or 1.0 watt per square foot (10.7 W/m2) of floor area for
space conditioning purposes.
         2.   Those that do not contain conditioned space.
         3.   Greenhouses.
         4.   Accessory utility and storage buildings and sports practice
buildings accessory to A, B, and E occupancies where buildings maintain no
heating or cooling or where intermittent heating and cooling systems are
installed.
         5.   Buildings for domestic water wells, irrigation wells, sewer pump
facilities, and sewer lift station buildings where equipment produces internal
heat loads and where intermittent heating or cooling is provided to prevent
freezing or overheating of equipment.
   C4025 Air leakage - thermal envelope (Mandatory). Add the following
exception:
      Exception: For buildings having over fifty thousand (50,000) square feet
of conditioned floor area, air leakage testing shall be permitted to be
conducted on less than the whole weighted building, provided the following
portions of the building are tested and their measured air leakage is area-
weighted by the surface areas of the building envelope:
      1.   The entire floor area of all stories that have any spaces directly
under a roof.
      2.   The entire floor area of all stories that have a building entrance
or loading dock.
      3.   Representative above-grade wall sections of the building totaling at
least twenty-five percent (25%) of the above-grade wall area enclosing the
remaining conditioned space. Floor area tested under subparagraphs 1 or 2 of
this exception shall not be included in the twenty-five percent (25%) of the
above- grade wall sections tested under this subparagraph.
   C403.5 Economizers (Prescriptive). Under Exceptions, add a new exception No.
7 as follows:
      7.   Unusual outdoor air contaminate conditions - Systems where special
outside air filtration and treatment for the reduction and treatment of unusual
outdoor contaminants, makes an air economizer infeasible.
   Table C404.5.1 Piping volume and maximum piping lengths. Delete table and
replace with the following Table:
Table C404.5.1
PIPING VOLUME AND MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTHS
Nominal Pipe Size  Volume (liquid ounces Maximum Piping Length
(inches)           per foot length)      Public lavatory Other fixtures and
                                         faucets         appliances
Table C404.5.1
PIPING VOLUME AND MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTHS
Nominal Pipe Size  Volume (liquid ounces Maximum Piping Length
(inches)           per foot length)      Public lavatory     Other fixtures and
                                         faucets             appliances
1/4                0.33                  31                  50
5/16               0.5                   N/A - non- standard 50
                                         size
3/8                0.75                  17                  50
1/2                1.5                   10                  43
5/8                2                     7                   32
3/4                3                     5                   21
7/8                4                     N/A - non- standard 16
                                         size
1                  5                     2                   8
1 1/4              8                     2                   8
1 1/2              11                    1                   6
2 or larger        18                    1                   4
 
   B.   The residential provisions of the 2018 International Energy
Conservation Code, as adopted, are hereby amended as follows:
      1.   Chapter 1 (RE) "Scope and Administration" is amended as follows:
   R101.1 Title. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the following: "Ada County."
   R104.1 Fees. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Fees and permits issued shall be part of a validly issued Ada County
Building Code Permit.
   R104.5 Refunds. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Refunds may be issued as part of a refund of fees paid for an Ada County
Building Code Permit.
   R108.4 Failure to comply. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the penalties as
set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   R109 Board of Appeals. Delete section in its entirety and replace with new
section R109 as follows:
      SECTION R109 BOARD OF APPEALS
      R109.1 General. Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada
County Building Board of Appeals. All appeals shall be heard pursuant to Ada
County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1.
   Add new section R110 Violations as follows:
      SECTION R110 VIOLATIONS
      R110.1 Violations. Violations of the provisions or requirements of this
code shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title
7, Chapter 2.
      2.   Chapter 2 "Definitions" is amended as follows:
      R202 General Definitions. Amend the definition of "Conditioned Space" as
follows:
         CONDITIONED SPACE. An area, room or space that is enclosed within the
building thermal envelope and that is directly or indirectly heated or cooled.
Spaces are indirectly heated or cooled where they communicate through openings
with conditioned spaces; where they are separated from conditioned spaces by
uninsulated walls, floors or ceilings; or where they contain uninsulated ducts,
piping or other sources of heating or cooling. This definition shall not apply
to garage spaces or other similar spaces where heating or cooling is installed
for frost protection or intermittent use.
      3.   Chapter 4 (RE) "Residential Energy Efficiency" is amended as
follows:
      Table R402.1.2 Insulation and Fenestration Requirements by Component.
      Delete the rows for climate zones “5 and Marine 4", and “6" of Table
R402.1.1, and add new climate zone rows “5" and “6" and a new footnote k as
follows:
   TABLE R402.1.2
   INSULATION AND FENESTRATION REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENTa,k
 
                                                    Wood  Mass                   Slabd Crawl
Climate Fenestration Skylightb Glazed       Ceiling Frame Wall   Floor Basementc R-    Spacec
Zone    U-Factorb    U-Factor  Fenestration R-Value Wall  R-     R-    Wall      Value Wall
                               SHGCb,e              R-    Valuei Value R-Value   &     R-
                                                    Value                        Depth Value
   5 0.32         0.55      NR           38      20 or 13/17  30g   15/19     10, 2 15/19
                                                    13+5h                        ft
6       0.30         0.55      NR           49      20 or 15/20  30g   15/19     10, 4 15/19
                                                    13+5h                        ft
 
   k.   For residential log home building thermal envelope construction
requirements see section R402.6.
   Table R402.1.4 Equivalent U-Factors. Delete the rows for climate zones “5
and Marine 4" and “6" and replace with climate zones “5" and “6" as follows:
    TABLE R402.1.4
   EQUIVALENT U-FACTORSa
 
                              Ceiling Frame  Mass    Floor  Basement Crawlspace
Climate Fenestration Skylight U-      Wall   Wall U- U-     Wall U-  Wall U-
Zone    U-Factor     U-Factor Factor  U-     Factorb Factor Factor   Factor
                                      Factor
   5 0.32         0.55     0.030   0.060  0.082   0.033  0.050    0.055
6       0.30         0.55     0.026   0.057  0.060   0.033  0.050    0.055
   R402.4.1 Building thermal envelope. Delete the paragraph and replace with
the following:
      1.   Until June 30, 2021, the building thermal envelope shall comply with
Section R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and either Section R402.4.1.2 (Testing) or
Section 402.4.1.3 (Visual Inspection).
      2.   Effective July 1, 2021, the building thermal envelope of a minimum
of twenty percent (20%) of all new single-family homes constructed by each
builder shall comply with Section R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and Section
R402.4.1.2 (Testing). The authority having jurisdiction may:
         2.1   Determine how to enforce this requirement, starting with the
fifth house and continuing with each subsequent fifth house.
         2.2   Waive this requirement if significant testing indicates the five
(5) air changes per hour (ACH) requirement is consistently being met or
exceeded (resulting in a lower ACH).
         2.3   Grant exceptions to this requirement in rural areas where
testing equipment is not available or cost effective.
      3.   Effective July 1, 2021, the building thermal envelope of eighty
percent (80%) of all new single-family homes constructed by each builder shall
comply with Section R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and either Section R402.4.1.2
(Testing) or Section 402.4.1.3 (Visual Inspection).
      4.   The sealing methods between dissimilar materials shall allow for
differential expansion and contraction.
   R402.4.1.1 Installation. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      The components of the building thermal envelope as listed in Table
R402.4.1.1 shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions and the criteria listed in Table R402.4.1.1, as applicable to the
method of construction.
   R402.4.1.2 Testing. Delete paragraphs and replace with the following:
      Testing building thermal envelope tightness and insulation installation
shall be considered acceptable when tested air leakage is less than five (5)
air changes per hour (ACH) when tested with a blower door at a pressure of
33.5psf (50 Pa). Testing shall occur after rough in and after installation of
penetrations of the building envelope, including penetrations of utilities,
plumbing, electrical, ventilation and combustion appliances. Testing shall be
conducted in accordance with RESNET/ICC 380, ASTM E 779 or ASTM E 1827 and
reported at a pressure of 0.2-inch w.g. (50 Pascals). During testing:
      1. Exterior windows and doors, fireplace and stove doors shall be closed,
but not sealed;
      2. Dampers shall be closed, but not sealed, including exhaust, intake,
makeup air, backdraft and flue dampers;
      3. Interior doors shall be open;
      4. Exterior openings for continuous ventilation systems and heat recovery
ventilators shall be closed and sealed;
      5. Heating and cooling system(s) shall be turned off;
      6. HVAC ducts shall not be sealed; and
      7. Supply and return registers shall not be sealed.
   Add as a new Section R402.4.1.3 the following:
      R402.4.1.3 Visual inspection. Building envelope tightness and insulation
installation shall be considered acceptable when the items listed in Table
R402.4.1.1, applicable to the method of construction, are verified. Where
required by code official an approved party independent from the installer of
the insulation shall inspect the air barrier and insulation.
   Add a new Section 402.6 the following:
      R402.6 Residential log home thermal envelope. Residential log home
construction shall comply with Sections 401 (General), 402.4 (Air leakage),
402.5 (Maximum fenestration U-factor and SHGC), 403.1 (Controls), the mandatory
sections of Sections R403.3 through R403.9, section R404 (Electrical Power and
Lighting Systems), and either 1., 2., or 3. as follows:
      1. Sections 402.2 through 402.3, Section 403.3.1 (Insulation), Section
404.1 (Lighting Equipment) and Table 402.6 (Log Home Prescriptive Thermal
Envelope Requirements By Component);
      2. Section 405 (Simulated Performance Alternative); or
      3. REScheck (U.S. Department of Energy Building Codes Program).
   Add a new Table R402.6 as follows:
   TABLE R402.6
   LOG HOME PRESCRIPTIVE THERMAL ENVELOPE REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENT
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
                                                  Min.                   Slab   Crawl
Climate Fenestratin Skylight Glazed       Ceiling Average Floor Basement R-     Space
Zone    U-Factora   U-Factor Fenestration R-Value Log     R-    Wall R-  Value  Wall
                             SHGC Value           Size In Value Valued   &      R-
                                                  Inches                 Depthb Valued
                                                     Min.                   Slab   Crawl
Climate    Fenestratin Skylight Glazed       Ceiling Average Floor Basement R-     Space
Zone       U-Factora   U-Factor Fenestration R-Value Log     R-    Wall R-  Value  Wall
                                SHGC Value           Size In Value Valued   &      R-
                                                     Inches                 Depthb Valued
5, 6 -
High                                                                        10, 4
efficiency 0.32        0.60     NR           49      5       30    15/19    ft.    10/13
equipment
pathc
5          0.32        0.60     NR           49      8       30    10/13    10, 2  10/13
                                                                            ft.
6          0.30        0.60     NR           49      8       30    15/19    10, 4  10/13
                                                                            ft.
a. The fenestration U-factor column excludes skylights. The SHGC column applies to all
glazed fenestration.
b. R-5 shall be added to the required slab edge R-values for heated slabs.
c. 90% AFUE natural gas or propane, 84% AFUE oil, or 15 SEER heat pump heating equipment
(zonal electric resistance heating equipment such as electric base board electric
resistance heating equipment as the sole source for heating is considered compliant with
the high efficiency equipment path).
d. "15/19" means R-15 continuous insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the
home or R-19 cavity insulation at the interior of the basement wall. "15/19" shall be
permitted to be met with R-13 cavity insulation on the interior of the basement wall plus
R-5 continuous insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the home. "10/13" means
R-10 continuous insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the home or R-13
cavity insulation at the interior of the basement wall.
 
   R403.5.3 Hot water pipe insulation (Prescriptive). Delete the paragraph and
replace with the following:
      R403.5.3 Hot water pipe insulation (Prescriptive). Insulation for hot
water piping with a thermal resistance, R-value, of not less than R-3 shall be
applied to the following:
      1.   Piping serving more than one (1) dwelling unit.
      2.   Piping located outside the conditioned space.
      3.   Piping located under a floor slab.
      4.   Buried piping.
      5.   Supply and return piping in recirculation systems other than demand
recirculation systems.
   R404.1 (N1104.1) Lighting equipment (Mandatory). Delete the paragraph and
replace with the following:
      A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the lamps in permanently
installed lighting fixtures shall be high-efficacy lamps or a minimum of
seventy-five percent (75%) of the lamps in permanently installed lighting
fixtures shall contain only high efficacy lamps.
   R406.3 Energy Rating Index. Delete the paragraphs and replace with the
following:
      The Energy Rating Index (ERI) shall be determined in accordance with
RESNET/ICC 301. Energy used to recharge or refuel a vehicle used for
transportation on roads that are not on the building site shall not be included
in the ERI reference design or the rated design.
   Delete Table R406.4 and replace with new Table R406.4 as follows:
   Table R406.4 Maximum Energy Rating Index
 
Climate Zone Energy Rating Indexa
5            68
6            68
 
      a Where on-site renewable energy is included for compliance using the ERI
analysis of section R406.4, the building shall meet the mandatory requirements
of section R406.2, and the building thermal envelope shall be greater than or
equal to the levels of efficiency and SHGC in Table R402.1.2 or Table R402.1.4
of the 2015 International Energy Conservation Code.
(Ord. 592, 8-2-2005; amd. Ord. 578, 11-13-2007; amd. Ord. 725, 5-5-2009; amd.
Ord. 781, 5-17-2011; amd. Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 836, 1-6-2015; amd.
Ord. 879, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 919, 2-16-2021; amd. Ord. 984, 10-22-2024)
7-2-9: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE
CODE:
The International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, 2018 edition, as adopted, is
hereby amended as follows:
   A.   Chapter 1 "Scope and Administration" is amended as follows:
   101.1 Title. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the following: "Ada County."
   101.2 Scope. Amend section as follows:
      The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, alteration,
movement, repair, maintenance and use of any building, structure or premises
that require an Ada County building permit within the wildland-urban interface
areas in this jurisdiction.
      Buildings or conditions in existence at the time of the adoption of this
code are allowed to have their use or occupancy continued, if such condition,
use or occupancy was legal at the time of the adoption of this code, provided
such continued use does not constitute a distinct danger to life or property.
      Buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction shall
comply with the provisions of this code for new buildings or structures.
   103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. Replace bracketed "[]" text with the
following: "Department of Building Safety."
   103.2 Appointment. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      The building official appointed by the County shall be the code official
for purposes of enforcing this code.
   104.3 Liability of the code official. Delete section in its entirety.
   106.1 General. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada County Building
Board of Appeals. All appeals shall be heard pursuant to Ada County Code, Title
7, Chapter 1.
   107.3 Work exempt from permit. Amend as follows:
      Unless otherwise provided in the requirements of the International
Building Code, a permit shall not be required for the following:
      1. One-story detached accessory buildings used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed two
hundred (200) square feet (18.58 m2) and the structure is located more than
fifty (50) feet (15,240 mm) from the nearest adjacent structure.
      2. Fences not over six (6) feet (1829 mm) high.
      Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed
to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of
the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this
jurisdiction.
      The code official is authorized to stipulate conditions for permits.
Permits shall not be issued when public safety would be at risk, as determined
by the code official.
   109.4.7 Violation penalties. Delete paragraph and add the following:
      Violations of the provisions or requirements of this code shall be
subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   112.1 Fees. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Fees and permits required under this code shall be part of a validly
issued Ada County Building Permit.
   112.5 Refunds. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Refunds may be issued as part of a refund of an Ada County Building
Permit.
   114.4 Failure to comply. Delete paragraph and replace with the following:
      Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the penalties as
set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2. (Ord. 781, 5-17-2011; amd.
Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 836, 1-6-2015; amd. Ord. 879, 2-13-2018; amd.
Ord. 919, 2-16-2021)
7-2-10: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA
CODE:
The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 edition, as adopted, is
hereby amended as follows:
   A.   Chapter 1 “Scope and Administration” is amended as follows:
   101.1 Title. Replace bracketed “[]” text with the following: “Ada County.”
   103.2 Appointment. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      The building official appointed by the County shall be the code official
for purposes of enforcing this code.
   103.4 Liability of the code official. Delete section in its entirety.
   105.3 Construction documents. Amend the paragraph as follows:
      Construction documents, engineering calculations, diagrams and other such
data shall be submitted in one complete set in digital format with each
application for a permit. The code official shall require construction
documents, computations and specifications to be prepared and designed by a
registered design professional where required by state law. Construction
documents shall be drawn to scale and shall be of sufficient clarity to
indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in
detail that the work conforms to the provisions of this code.
   105.6 Fees. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Fees required under this code shall be part of a validly issued Ada
County Building Permit.
   105.6.2 Fee Schedule. Delete section.
   105.6.3 Refunds. Delete the section paragraphs and replace with the
following:
      Refunds may be issued as part of a refund of an Ada County Building
Permit.
   107.4 Violation penalties. Delete paragraph and add the following:
      Violations of the provisions or requirements of this code shall be
subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
   Section 108 Means of appeal. Delete section in its entirety and replace with
new section 108 as follows:
      SECTION 108 MEANS OF APPEAL
      108.1 General. Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada
County Building Board of Appeals. All appeals shall be heard pursuant to Ada
County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1. (Ord. 919, 2-16-2021)
7-2-11: ADA COUNTY AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   101.1 Title. Replace bracketed “[]” text with the following: “Ada County.”
   103.2 Appointment. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      The building official appointed by the County shall be the code official
for purposes of enforcing this code.
   104.8 Liability. Delete section in its entirety.
   105.2.1 Construction documents. Amend the paragraph as follows:
      Construction documents, engineering calculations, diagrams and other such
data shall be submitted in one complete set in digital format with each
application for a permit. The code official shall require construction
documents, computations and specifications to be prepared and designed by a
registered design professional where required by state law. Construction
documents shall be drawn to scale and shall be of sufficient clarity to
indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in
detail that the work conforms to the provisions of this code.
   108 Fees. Delete sentence and replace with the following:
      Fees required under this code shall be part of a validly issued Ada
County Building Permit.
   108.2 Fee Schedule. Delete section.
   108.6 Refunds. Delete the section paragraphs and replace with the following:
      Refunds may be issued as part of a refund of an Ada County Building
Permit.
   Section 112 Board of appeals. Delete section in its entirety and replace
with new section 108 as follows:
      SECTION 112 BOARD OF APPEALS
      108.1 General. Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1 establishes the Ada
County Building Board of Appeals. All appeals shall be heard pursuant to Ada
County Code, Title 7, Chapter 1.
   113.4 Violation penalties. Delete paragraph and add the following:
      Violations of the provisions or requirements of this code shall be
subject to the penalties as set forth in Ada County Code, Title 7, Chapter 2.
(Ord. 919, 2-16-2021)
7-2-12: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Each violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor. Each day that work continues after notification of violation shall
constitute a separate offense, and each violation shall be punishable as
provided in Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended
and/or retitled.
   B.   Remedies: In the event any action is taken or any construction or use
commenced in violation of the regulations of this chapter, the County, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent such unlawful action or construction to restrain, correct, or abate
such violation, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use. (Ord.
781, 5-17-2011; amd. Ord. 817, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 919, 2-16-2021)
CHAPTER 3
UTILITY SERVICES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Zoning Certificate Or Building Permit Required
7-3-3: Penalties
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The Ada County board of county commissioners.
BUILDING PERMIT: A building permit as described in the Ada County building
code.
SERVICE: Providing, attaching or hooking up to any building, mobile home or
other structure any line or pipe, which line or pipe is intended to provide any
of the following services: telephone, gas, electricity, water or sewage
disposal.
UTILITY: Any public or private corporation or company which supplies the public
or a group of individuals with the following commodity, service or both:
telephone, gas, electricity, water, or sewage disposal.
ZONING CERTIFICATE: A zoning certificate as described by section
8-7-1 of this code. (Ord. 73, 4-27-1977)
7-3-2: ZONING CERTIFICATE OR BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for a utility to provide any service to any building,
mobile home or other structure outside the limits of any incorporated city in
Ada County until such utility has been furnished with a copy of the zoning
certificate which has been issued for such building, mobile home or other
structure; provided that, for a dwelling or mobile home in a recorded
subdivision for dwellings or mobile homes zoned medium low density residential
zone, medium density residential - mobile home zone, medium high density
residential zone, estate residential zone, and low density residential zone,
only a building permit which is, in itself, contingent upon proper zoning need
be acquired for a utility to provide any services.
When a zoning certificate or building permit is issued pursuant to the Ada
County zoning ordinance or the building code, the issuer shall furnish to the
successful applicant copies in an amount sufficient for said successful
applicant to furnish all utilities with a copy. (Ord. 73, 4-27-1977)
7-3-3: PENALTIES:
Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
as provided in section 18-113, Idaho Code as it may from time to time be
amended and/or retitled. The procedure on violations of this chapter shall be
that procedure set out in section
7-2-10 of this title. However, said remedies shall not exclude any other
remedies herein or otherwise provided. (Ord. 73, 4-27-1977; amd. Ord. 603, 1-
30-2006)
CHAPTER 4
UNDERGROUND UTILITY INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Authority to Install
7-4-3: Permit Required
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
INSTALLATION: Any installing, reinstalling, servicing, repairing, constructing,
or removing of an underground util ity.
PERSON: Includes any corporation, municipality, association, agent, enterprise
or individual.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Includes any public highway, street, road, alley, sidewalk
or easement within Ada County.
UNDERGROUND UTILITY: Includes sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, gas
mains, electric and communication cables.
UTILITY COMPANY: Any entity, corporation, municipality or other person
installing, reinstalling, servicing, repairing, constructing, or removing any
underground utility.
7-4-2: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL:
   A.   The Ada County Highway District shall have authority to receive
applications for and issue permits for the installation of underground
utilities within the public right of way.
   B.   The Ada County Highway District shall have authority to formulate
rules, regulations and standards concerning the application for permits,
issuance of permits, locations of installations, inspection and control of
installations, special utility easements and liability of utility companies.
Determination of such rules, regulations and standards shall be in keeping with
the best interests of public access to underground utilities in the public
right of way, traffic control, types of public rights of way involved and in
the interest of the public health, welfare and safety.
7-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall begin the installation of any underground utility in a public
right of way without first having made application for and having been issued a
valid permit. (Ord. 44, 9-30-71)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOMES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Emblem, Sticker To Be Displayed
7-5-1: EMBLEM, STICKER TO BE DISPLAYED:
   A.   The county assessor, or his deputy, after having assessed a mobile home
located in Ada County, shall furnish to the owner or occupant of said mobile
home an emblem or a sticker, which emblem or sticker shall be printed and
furnished at county cost, to the owner or occupant of said mobile home or shall
affix said emblem or sticker to said mobile home, and said emblem or sticker
shall be affixed so that it shall be visible from the public roadway, and said
emblem or sticker shall designate the said mobile home has been assessed for
that year.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by
Idaho Code, section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or
retitled, for any person to occupy or own a mobile home in Ada County for a
continuous period in excess of seventy two (72) hours without having displayed,
as described in subsection A of this section, the emblem or sticker therein
described. (Ord. 45, 10-12-1971, eff. 1-1-1972; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006)
CHAPTER 6
ADA COUNTY SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE ORDINANCE
(Rep. by Ord. 254, 11-3-1992)
TITLE 8
ADA COUNTY ZONING
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Purpose
8-1-3: Scope And Content
8-1-4: Applicability
8-1-5: Interpretation
8-1-6: Disincorporation
8-1-7: Errors In Legal Descriptions
8-1-8: References
8-1-9: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
8-1-10: Saving Clause
8-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this title is declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official zoning ordinance of Ada County.
This title shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE. The Ada
County zoning ordinance is published by authority of the Board of
Commissioners, and it shall be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this Code. Within this document, the Ada County zoning ordinance shall
be referred to as "this title". (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Carry out the intent and purposes of the "Local Land Use Planning Act",
Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., as amended;
   B.   Carry out the policies of the applicable Comprehensive Plan by
classifying and regulating the uses of property and structures within the
unincorporated areas of Ada County;
   C.   Establish zoning districts within Ada County in accord with the adopted
applicable Comprehensive Plan in conformance with Idaho Code section 67-6511;
   D.   Provide standards for the orderly growth and development of Ada County
and to avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding of land. As
required by Idaho Code section 67-6511, such standards include, but are not
limited to, those regulating:
      1.   The height, number of stories, size, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair or location of structures.
      2.   Percentage of coverage, size of required yards, and density of
residential dwellings.
      3.   The use of structures and property;
   E.   Ensure the most appropriate use of properties;
   F.   Protect property rights and enhance property values; and
   G.   Provide a method of administration and prescribe penalties for the
violations of regulations hereafter described as authorized by the Constitution
and laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1-3: SCOPE AND CONTENT:
   A.   This title shall consist of the text adopted by ordinance 389, as
amended from time to time, and the official zoning maps adopted by ordinance
391, as amended from time to time. Copies are available for review at the Ada
County Development Services Department. This title and each and all of its
terms are to be read and interpreted in light of the designations of the
official zoning maps.
   B.   Amendments to the official zoning maps (ordinance 391) are as follows:
      Ordinances 394, 397, 398, 399, 405, 406, 407, 408, 410, 414, 415, 416,
418, 421, 431, 434, 436, 439, 441, 443, 444, 445, 448, 449, 450, 451, 452, 454,
455, 457, 459, 460, 461, 463, 466, 469, 470, 471, 474, 475, 476, 479, 480, 481,
482, 483, 484, 485, 486, 487, 492, 494, 495, 496, 496A, 499, 500, 501, 504,
506, 510, 511, 512, 514, 516, 517, 521, 526, 527, 528, 530, 532, 533, 534, 537,
540, 545, 546, 552, 554, 555, 556, 557, 558, 559, 561, 562, 563, 564, 565, 569,
570, 572, 573, 575, 576, 578, 580, 585, 586, 590, 593, 594, 595, 597, 600, 604,
604A, 605, 606, 608, 609, 614, 615, 617, 622, 624, 627, 630, 632, 633, 634,
635, 639, 640, 641, 642, 646, 648, 650, 651, 652, 653, 655, 657, 665, 666, 667,
668, 670, 672, 673, 677, 684, 686, 687, 688, 689, 690, 695, 704, 705, 706, 707,
708, 712, 714, 716, 718, 720, 721, 722, 735, 737, 740, 742, 746, 747, 750, 752,
758, 759, 761, 764, 767, 773, 776, 778, 782, 783, 787, 789, 791, 798, 799, 800,
802, 803, 805, 807, 811, 813, 814, 818, 819, 820, 821, 823, 824, 826, 829, 833,
834, 838, 840, 845, 847, 850, 851, 855, 856, 857, 862, 867, 870, 873, 874, 875,
877, 881, 884, 885, 886, 888, 889, 891, 892, 893, 895, 897, 898, 899, 900, 901,
909, 912, 913, 916, 923, 924, 926, 927, 928, 930, 931, 937, 939, 940, 941, 943,
944, 946, 947, 948, 949, 951, 955, 957, 958, 960.
(Ord. 394, 2-23-2000, eff. 8-18-2000; amd. Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 391,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 397, 7-11-2000; amd. Ord. 398, 7-21-2000; amd. Ord. 399,
7-26-2000; amd. Ord. 405, 8-29-2000; amd. Ord. 406, 8-29-2000; amd. Ord. 407,
8-29-2000; amd. Ord. 408, 9-13-2000; amd. Ord. 410, 9-26-2000; amd. Ord. 415,
12-6-2000; amd. Ord. 414, 12-13-2000; amd. Ord. 416, 12-13-2000; amd. Ord. 418,
2-7-2001; amd. Ord. 421, 3-27-2001; amd. Ord. 431, 6-27-2001, eff. 6-27-2001;
amd. Ord. 434, 7-24-2001; amd. Ord. 436, 9-25-2001; amd. Ord. 439, 10-9-2001;
amd. Ord. 441, 10-24-2001; amd. Ord. 443, 11-7-2001; amd. Ord. 444, 11-29-2001;
amd. Ord. 445, 1-22-2002; amd. Ord. 448, 3-12-2002; amd. Ord. 449, 3-13-2002;
amd. Ord. 450, 3-13-2002; amd. Ord. 451, 4-2-2002; amd. Ord. 452, 4-24-2002;
amd. Ord. 454, 5-22-2002; amd. Ord. 455, 7-24-2002; amd. Ord. 457, 7-24-2002;
amd. Ord. 459, 7-24-2002; amd. Ord. 460, 7-24-2002; amd. Ord. 461, 7-30-2002;
amd. Ord. 463, 8-13-2002; amd. Ord. 466, 9-24-2002; amd. Ord. 469, 10-9-2002;
amd. Ord. 470, 11-20-2002; amd. Ord. 471, 11-20-2002; amd. Ord. 474, 12-10-
2002; amd. Ord. 475, 12-10-2002; amd. Ord. 476, 12-18-2002; amd. Ord. 479, 1-
22-2003; amd. Ord. 480, 1-22-2003; amd. Ord. 481, 1-29-2003; amd. Ord. 482, 1-
29-2003; amd. Ord. 483, 2-12-2003; amd. Ord. 484, 2-12-2003; amd. Ord. 485, 2-
12-2003; amd. Ord. 486, 2-12-2003; amd. Ord. 487, 2-12-2003; amd. Ord. 492, 3-
4-2003; amd. Ord. 494, 3-12-2003; amd. Ord. 495, 3-12-2003; amd. Ord. 496, 3-
12-2003; amd. Ord. 499, 4-1-2003; amd. Ord. 501, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 500, 4-23-
2003; amd. Ord. 506, 6-25-2003; amd. Ord. 504, 7-23-2003; amd. Ord. 510, 7-23-
2003; amd. Ord. 496A, 8-5-2003; amd. Ord. 512, 8-13-2003; amd. Ord. 514, 8-13-
2003; amd. Ord. 517, 9-9-2003; amd. Ord. 516, 9-24-2003; amd. Ord. 511, 10-8-
2003; amd. Ord. 521, 10-28-2003; amd. Ord. 526, 12-10-2003; amd. Ord. 527, 12-
10-2003; amd. Ord. 528, 12-10-2003; amd. Ord. 530, 1-28-2004; amd. Ord. 533, 3-
10-2004; amd. Ord. 534, 3-16-2004; amd. Ord. 532, 4-14-2004; amd. Ord. 537, 4-
28-2004; amd. Ord. 540, 6-2-2004; amd. Ord. 545, 6-2-2004; amd. Ord. 546, 6-7-
2004; amd. Ord. 552, 7-14-2004; amd. Ord. 554, 8-11-2004; amd. Ord. 555, 8-11-
2004; amd. Ord. 556, 8-25-2004; amd. Ord. 558, 8-25-2004; amd. Ord. 559, 8-25-
2004; amd. Ord. 561, 9-29-2004; amd. Ord. 562, 10-13-2004; amd. Ord. 563, 11-
10-2004; amd. Ord. 557, 12-8-2004; amd. Ord. 569, 12-15-2004; amd. Ord. 570,
12-15-2004; amd. Ord. 572, 1-26-2005; amd. Ord. 573, 3-9-2005; amd. Ord. 564,
3-23-2005; amd. Ord. 576, 3-23-2005; amd. Ord. 575, 5-11-2005; amd. Ord. 565,
5-31-2005; amd. Ord. 578, 6-14-2005; amd. Ord. 585, 6-22-2005; amd. Ord. 586,
7-27-2005; amd. Ord. 590, 7-27-2005; amd. Ord. 594, 9-13-2005; amd. Ord. 593,
9-14-2005; amd. Ord. 595, 9-28-2005; amd. Ord. 600, 12-14-2005; amd. Ord. 597,
12-28-2005; amd. Ord. 605, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 580, 2-8-2006; amd. Ord. 604,
2-8-2006; amd. Ord. 606, 2-8-2006; amd. Ord. 608, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 609, 3-
8-2006; amd. Ord. 614, 4-12-2006; amd. Ord. 615, 5-10-2006; amd. Ord. 622, 5-
24-2006; amd. Ord. 617, 6-28-2006; amd. Ord. 624, 6-28-2006; amd. Ord. 627, 8-
29-2006; amd. Ord. 630, 8-29-2006; amd. Ord. 633, 9-13-2006; amd. Ord. 634, 10-
11-2006; amd. Ord. 632, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 635, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 640,
12-13-2006; amd. Ord. 646, 12-13-2006; amd. Ord. 639, 12-20-2006; amd. Ord.
641, 1-2-2007; amd. Ord. 642, 1-2-2007; amd. Ord. 648, 1-2-2007; amd. Ord. 650,
2-14-2007; amd. Ord. 651, 2-14-2007; amd. Ord. 652, 2-14-2007; amd. Ord. 653,
2-14-2007; amd. Ord. 655, 3-14-2007; amd. Ord. 657, 3-28-2007; amd. Ord. 665,
5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 667, 6-13-2007; amd. Ord. 668, 6-13-2007; amd. Ord. 666, 7-
11-2007; amd. Ord. 672, 7-11-2007; amd. Ord. 670, 7-25-2007; amd. Ord. 673, 9-
26-2007; amd. Ord. 677, 10-24-2007; amd. Ord. 684, 2-27-2008; amd. Ord. 686, 3-
12-2008; amd. Ord. 687, 3-26-2008; amd. Ord. 688, 3-26-2008; amd. Ord. 689, 3-
26-2008; amd. Ord. 690, 3-26-2008; amd. Ord. 695, 5-28-2008; amd. Ord. 704, 8-
12-2008; amd. Ord. 705, 8-12-2008; amd. Ord. 708, 8-27-2008; amd. Ord. 706, 9-
10-2008; amd. Ord. 712, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 714, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 716, 12-
17-2008; amd. Ord. 718, 12-17-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 1-14-2009; amd. Ord. 722, 1-
14-2009; amd. Ord. 720, 1-28-2009; amd. Ord. 735, 11-18-2009; amd. Ord. 737, 1-
13-2010; amd. Ord. 740, 1-13-2010; amd. Ord. 707, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 742, 3-
10-2010; amd. Ord. 746, 4-13-2010; amd. Ord. 747, 4-14-2010; amd. Ord. 750, 7-
21-2010; amd. Ord. 758, 9-8-2010; amd. Ord. 752, 10-13-2010; amd. Ord. 759, 10-
13-2010; amd. Ord. 761, 10-13-2010; amd. Ord. 764, 11-16-2010; amd. Ord. 767,
12-8-2010; amd. Ord. 773, 4-13-2011; amd. Ord. 776, 5-11-2011; amd. Ord. 778,
5-11-2011; amd. Ord. 782, 8-8-2011; amd. Ord. 783, 6-8-2011; amd. Ord. 787, 8-
8-2011; amd. Ord. 789, 9-14-2011; amd. Ord. 791, 10-12-2011; amd. Ord. 798, 6-
12-2012; amd. Ord. 799, 8-21-2012; amd. Ord. 800, 9-6-2012; amd. Ord. 802, 10-
19-2012; amd. Ord. 803, 10-19-2012; amd. Ord. 805, 1-19-2013; amd. Ord. 807, 6-
18-2013; amd. Ord. 811, 8-23-2013; amd. Ord. 813, 9-28-2013; amd. Ord. 814, 10-
12-2013; amd. Ord. 818, 1-8-2014; amd. Ord. 819, 3-10-2014; amd. Ord. 820, 4-1-
2014; amd. Ord. 821, 4-18-2014; amd. Ord. 823, 5-20-2014; amd. Ord. 824, 5-20-
2014; amd. Ord. 826, 7-18-2014; amd. Ord. 829, 8-19-2014; amd. Ord. 833, 11-28-
2014; amd. Ord. 834, 12-3-2014; amd. Ord. 838, 1-14-2015; amd. Ord. 840, 2-6-
2015; amd. Ord. 845, 8-12-2015; amd. Ord. 847, 10-14-2015; amd. Ord. 850, 2-10-
2016; amd. Ord. 851, 3-2-2016; amd. Ord. 855, 4-6-2016; amd. Ord. 856, 9-14-
2016; amd. Ord. 857, 11-9-2016; amd. Ord. 604A, 1-31-2017; amd. Ord. 862, 2-15-
2017; amd. Ord. 867, 4-5-2017; amd. Ord. 870, 8-16-2017; amd. Ord. 873, 9-6-
2017; amd. Ord. 874, 10-4-2017; amd. Ord. 875, 11-1-2017; amd. Ord. 877, 1-10-
2018; amd. Ord. 881, 3-14-2018; amd. Ord. 884, 3-14-2018; amd. Ord. 885, 5-9-
2018; amd. Ord. 886, 5-9-2018; amd. Ord. 888, 9-12-2018; amd. Ord. 889, 9-26-
2018; amd. Ord. 891, 10-17-2018; amd. Ord. 892, 10-17-2018; amd. Ord. 893, 1-9-
2019; amd. Ord. 895, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 897, 7-10-2019; amd. Ord. 898, 7-10-
2019; amd. Ord. 899, 7-10-2019; amd. Ord. 900, 9-24-2019; amd. Ord. 901, 10-10-
2019; amd. Ord. 909, 2-25-2020; amd. Ord. 912, 5-14-2020; amd. Ord. 913, 6-1-
2020; amd. Ord. 916, 10-14-2020; amd. Ord. 923, 6-2-2021; amd. Ord. 924, 7-14-
2021; amd. Ord. 926, 7-14-2021; amd. Ord. 927, 7-14-2021; amd. Ord. 928, 7-21-
2021; amd. Ord. 930, 10-13-2021; amd. Ord. 931, 10-13-2021; amd. Ord. 937, 6-
14-2022; amd. Ord. 939, 8-10-2022; amd. Ord. 940, 8-10-2022; amd. Ord. 941, 9-
14-2022; amd. Ord. 943, 9-14-2022; amd. Ord. 944, 9-14-2022; amd. Ord. 946, 11-
16-2022; amd. Ord. 947, 2-28-2023; amd. Ord. 948, 3-14-2023; amd. Ord. 949, 5-
10-2023; amd. Ord. 951, 5-10-2023; amd. Ord. 955, 6-14-2023; amd. Ord. 957, 7-
12-2023; amd. Ord. 958, 9-28-2023; amd. Ord. 960, 10-11-2023)
8-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this title shall apply to all unincorporated properties
within Ada County and shall govern development and use of those properties.
   A.   Compliance; Approval Required: No person or public agency shall
construct, alter, move, or change the use of a structure or undertake any
development unless:
      1.   The proposed use, structure, or division of property complies with
this title.
      2.   Any required approval is first obtained as provided by chapter 7 of
this title, and any applicable conditions of approval are met.
   B.   Permits Required: Nothing in this title shall eliminate the need for
obtaining any other required permits, including, but not limited to, building
permits, plumbing, electrical, or mechanical permits, or any permit, approval,
or entitlement required by other titles of this code, other political
subdivisions of the state of Idaho, or agencies of the state of Idaho.
   C.   Unincorporated County Properties: All properties in unincorporated Ada
County shall comply with the regulations of this title unless otherwise
preempted by federal statute or local ordinance.
   D.   Previous Violations: The prosecution of violations that occurred under
previous land use regulations and that remain a violation under this title
shall continue until resolved.
   E.   Project With Pending Application: All applications shall be processed
and reviewed according to the ordinances and comprehensive plans in effect as
of the date of application submission.
   F.   Approved Projects Not Yet Completed: Any approved application may still
be completed as provided by the approval. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426,
9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 659, 3-28-2007; amd. Ord. 730, 7-
7-2009; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010)
8-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Language:
      1.   Terminology: When used in this title, all words used in the present
tense shall include the future; words used in the singular number shall include
the plural number and the plural the singular, unless the natural construction
of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is mandatory, and the
word "may" is permissive.
      2.   Number Of Days: Whenever a number of days is specified in this
title, or in any permit, condition of approval, or notice issued or given as
provided in this title, the number of days shall be construed as calendar days,
except that such time limits shall extend to the following working day when the
last of the specified number of days falls on a weekend or Ada County holiday.
      3.   Minimum Requirements: When interpreting and applying the regulations
of this title, all regulations shall be considered to be minimum requirements,
unless stated otherwise. Proposed uses shall comply with all applicable
regulations and standards unless specifically exempt elsewhere in this title.
      4.   Defined Terms: Terms defined in section
8-1A-1 of this chapter shall have their defined meanings when used elsewhere in
this title. For the purpose of readability and clarity, such terms are not
shown in initial caps.
      5.   Section Headings: Section headings or captions are for reference
purposes only and shall not be used in the interpretation of this title.
      6.   References: All references to state or federal laws and/or
regulations shall refer to such laws and/or regulations as they may be amended
over time.
   B.   Measurements:
      1.   Structure height shall be measured as the vertical distance from the
average contact ground level at the front wall of a building to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, the deck line of a mansard roof, or the
average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
      2.   Linear distance shall be measured in a horizontal line; it shall not
be measured along an inclined surface or line. For uses that have a separation
standard, the distance shall be measured from the nearest customer entrance of
the proposed use to the nearest property line of the specified use. The
measurement is to be conducted in a radial fashion by the specified number of
feet (e.g., 300 feet, 1,000 feet).
      3.   Illumination levels shall be measured with a calibrated
photoelectric photometer or similar device capable of accurate measurement of
light.
      4.   Noise levels shall be measured at the property line with a
calibrated noise meter or similar device capable of accurate measurement of
sound. See section
8-1A-2, figure 2 of this chapter.
   C.   District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists about the location of any
district boundary shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall
be used to resolve the uncertainty:
      1.   Where a district boundary approximately follows a property line,
such property line shall be construed as the district boundary.
      2.   Where a district boundary approximately follows a street, alley, or
railroad line, such street, alley, centerline, or the extension of such line,
shall be construed as the district boundary. Where a street or alley is
officially vacated and that street or alley has not been given a zoning
designation, the land that was formerly in the vacated street or alley shall
have the same designation as the abutting property on either side of the
centerline of the vacated street or alley.
      3.   Where a district boundary approximately follows a watercourse, the
centerline of the watercourse shall be construed to be such boundary. In the
event of a change in the watercourse shoreline, the boundary shall be construed
as moving with the actual shoreline.
      4.   Where a district boundary does not obviously coincide with any of
the above lines (property; street, alley, or railroad line; watercourse), or
where it is not designated by dimensions, it shall be deemed to be located
along nearest section, a quarter section, or a sixteenth section line.
   D.   Conflicting Regulations:
      1.   In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this title, the
maps shall prevail.
      2.   If conflicts occur between different regulations of this title, or
between this title and other regulations of this code, the most restrictive
regulation shall apply.
      3.   It is not intended that this title interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; however,
where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of structures or
premises or upon the height of structures, or requires larger space than is
imposed or required by ordinances, rules or regulations, or by easements,
covenants, or agreements, the regulations of this title shall govern. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord.
772, 7-27-2011)
8-1-6: DISINCORPORATION:
Where property becomes a part of the unincorporated area of Ada County by the
disincorporation of any city, or portion thereof, such properties shall be
zoned by the board following the notice and hearing regulations of sections
8-7A-4 and
8-7A-5 of this title to the Ada County zoning district that corresponds to the
city's zoning prior to disincorporation. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1-7: ERRORS IN LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS:
Where a property has not been zoned due to an error in a legal description the
following shall apply:
   A.   If the error is caused by the county, the error shall be corrected and
duly processed by the county as soon as the error is discovered.
   B.   If the error is caused by the applicant and/or owner, the applicant
shall apply for a zoning ordinance map amendment and submit the proper fees.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1-8: REFERENCES:
References in this title to other ordinances or codes of Ada County and
statutes of the state of Idaho are provided solely for the coordination of this
title with such other ordinances and statutes. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1-9: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
   A.   This title shall be interpreted to equally protect citizens from the
undue encroachment on their private property by their neighbors' use of their
private property and equally protect each citizen's right to use of their
property without creating undue burden upon their neighbors.
   B.   In the administration of this title, every person shall be secure in
their premises, and no employee of the county shall enter upon, investigate, or
search any of the premises of any citizen without the consent of such citizen
or order issued by a court of proper jurisdiction.
   C.   Every citizen of Ada County shall have the right to appear in person or
be represented by his or her agent before the board in the proper order of
business to appeal a decision pursuant to the procedures contained in section
8-7-7 of this title.
   D.   In the enforcement of this title, it shall be deemed to apply equally
to each citizen and each property in similar circumstances, and shall not be
enforced to discriminate between one individual and/or another individual or
other group as compared to all others. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1-10: SAVING CLAUSE:
Should any section, clause, or regulation of this title be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity
of this title as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared
to be invalid; each section, clause, or regulation hereof being declared
severable. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE A. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Definitions
8-1A-2: Figures
8-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the following meanings in the interpretation and
construction of this title:
ABANDONED: To cease or discontinue a use of activity for twelve (12) months
unless an active building permit has been issued.
ABUT OR ABUTTING: Having a common border with the subject property.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached structure in a rural or residential base
district that is incidental and subordinate to the principal structure and is
located upon the same property. (Hallways, tunnels, breezeways, porticos, and
similar connections shall not constitute an attachment to the principal
permitted dwelling.) The term accessory structure shall include, but not be
limited to, the following: private garage, storage structure, workshop,
greenhouse, and/or a structure that houses a detached secondary dwelling. The
term shall not include additional structures for approved public, commercial,
or industrial uses.
ACCESSORY USE: A use that is incidental and subordinate to the principal or
approved conditional use, and is conducted upon the same property. For the
purposes of this title, temporary uses specified in chapter 4, article L of
this title shall be deemed accessory uses.
ADULT BOOTH: A separate enclosure within a structure featuring adult
entertainment or adult material. The term adult booth does not include a
restroom or a foyer through which any person can enter or exit the
establishment.
ADULT CABARET: An establishment that features adult entertainment.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any modeling, posing, exhibition, display, or exposure, of
any type, whether through book, pictures, film, displays, live performance,
dance, or modeling, that has as its dominant theme, or is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on any one or more of the following: a) any actual
or simulated specified sexual activities, b) specified anatomical areas, c) the
removal of articles of clothing, or d) appearing nude or seminude.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: An adult video or bookstore, adult cabaret,
adult booth, adult modeling or display establishment, adult motel, or adult
theater.
ADULT MATERIAL: One or more of the following materials that have as their
primary or dominant theme matter depicting, illustrating, describing or
relating to adult entertainment, regardless of whether it is new or used: a)
books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter; b) photographs, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other visual representations; c)
recordings or other audio matter. The term adult material shall also include
instruments, novelties, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with adult entertainment.
ADULT MODELING OR DISPLAY ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment whose employees
engage in adult entertainment or adult private modeling.
ADULT MOTEL: Any motel, hotel, boarding house, rooming house, or other place of
temporary lodging that includes the word "adult" or "erotic" in any name it
uses, or otherwise provides or advertises adult entertainment or adult
material.
ADULT PRIVATE MODELING: Modeling, posing, exhibition, display, or exposure by
an employee relating to adult entertainment before a nonemployee while the
nonemployee is in an area not accessible to all other persons in the
establishment, or while the nonemployee is in an area either totally or
partially screened or partitioned during such display from the view of all
persons outside the area. The term "private performance" is considered private
modeling.
ADULT RESPITE CARE CENTER: A facility or home providing care and supervision
for compensation for part of a day for nine (9) or more adult clients not
related by blood or marriage to the person(s) providing the care, in a place
other than the client's home.
ADULT THEATER: An establishment consisting of an enclosed structure, or a
portion or part of an enclosed structure, or an open air area where a person
may view adult material or adult entertainment. Generally, the adult material
or adult entertainment is prerecorded material.
ADULT VIDEO OR BOOK STORE: An establishment that sells or rents adult material;
however, any establishment meeting all the following criteria shall not be
considered an adult video or book store:
   A.   The adult material is accessible only by employees.
   B.   The individual items of adult material offered for sale and/or rental
comprise less than ten percent (10%) of the individual items publicly displayed
at the establishment as stock in trade in the following categories: videos,
books, magazines, periodicals, other printed matter, slides, other visual
representations, recordings, and other audio matter.
   C.   The establishment does not use the following terms in advertisements or
other promotional activities relating to the adult materials: "XXX", "XX", "X",
or any series of the letter "X" whether or not interspersed with other letters,
figures, or characters; "erotic" or deviations of that word; "adult
entertainment" or similar phrases; "sex" or "sexual acts" or similar phrases;
"nude" or "nudies" or similar phrases; or any other letters, words, or phrases
that promote the purchase or rental of adult material.
AGRICULTURAL LAND, PRIME: Land that contains class I, II, or III agricultural
soils as defined by the natural resources conservation service.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE STAND: An establishment for the display and sale to the
general public of "produce" as defined in this section, which produce has been
grown on the premises on a seasonal basis. No other commodities may be sold.
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE: An activity that provides support for agriculture and
forestry as classified by the U.S. census bureau "North American Industrial
Classification System." The term shall include agricultural service composting.
The use must serve a rural district with agricultural use as herein defined.
AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE: A structure on a "farm", as herein defined, excluding
any dwelling or any structure that shelters any personal items not directly
needed for agricultural uses.
AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL USE: Activities that take place on a "farm," as
herein defined, that are classified by the Ada County assessor's office tax
categories of 010, 020, 030, 040, and/or 050. The application of fertilizer or
process wastewater at agronomic rates shall be deemed a component of the
agricultural use.
AGRONOMIC RATE: The application of fertilizer or other crop supplements: a) at
rates whereby the nutrients are fully taken up by the crop or stored in the
soil, and b) in a manner that does not negatively impact the waters of the
state.
AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD: A privately owned area of land that is used or intended
for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, including the necessary accessory
structures or facilities for storing and maintenance of aircraft.
AIRPORT: A publicly owned area of land that is used or intended for the landing
and takeoff of aircraft, including the necessary accessory structures or
facilities for storing and maintenance of aircraft.
AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREAS: The areas surrounding the Boise air terminal that are
affected by significant aircraft noise and safety hazards, as set forth in
chapter 3, article A of this title.
ALIQUOT: The length of one side of a quarter-quarter section (1/16). The one-
sixteenth (1/16) section contains forty (40) acres, more or less.
ALLEY: See definition of Street: Street, Alley.
ALTERNATIVE FUEL: A fuel that is used primarily to power combustion engines
that includes, but is not limited to, biodiesel, electricity, ethanol,
hydrogen, methanol, natural gas and propane.
AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA: The supporting towers and antenna structure necessary
for broadcast from a radio communication service for the purpose of self-
training, intercommunication, and technical investigation carried out by
amateurs, that is, duly authorized persons interested in radio technique solely
with a personal aim and without commercial interest.
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT: The Americans with disabilities act part III
(appendix A to part 36), as published in the federal register volume 56 no. 144
(and subsequent editions) and the Americans with disabilities act part II, as
published in the federal register volume 56 no. 173.
AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY: An establishment engaged in providing
amusement, recreation, or entertainment. Indoor amusement or recreation
facility shall include, but not be limited to, pool hall, billiard parlor,
theater, health club, spa, fitness facility, nightclub, or skating rink.
Outdoor amusement or recreation facility shall include, but not be limited to,
amusement park, miniature golf, golf driving range (that is not accessory to a
golf course), drive-in theater, tennis court, football, soccer, rugby, or
hockey field, skatepark, or swimming pool.
ANIMAL CLINIC, ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any structure, or portion
thereof, that is designed or used for the medical or surgical treatment of
animals in which veterinary services, including boarding incidental to
treatment, are limited to short term care.
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (AFO): A "livestock confinement facility", as herein
defined, with more than three hundred (300) animal units, and where the animal
confinement areas do not sustain crops, vegetation, forage growth, or
postharvest residues in the normal growing season as generally described in 40
CFR (code of federal regulations) 122.23(b)(1).
Two (2) or more abutting AFOs under common ownership shall be considered a
single AFO. Two (2) or more AFOs that are operated as a single facility shall
be considered a single AFO if it is determined by the director that they
significantly link operations including, but not limited to, shared storage or
treatment systems or shared equipment.
ANIMAL UNIT: A unit of measurement for livestock confinement facilities
calculated by adding the following numbers: the combined weight of all dairy
cattle divided by one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350); plus the combined
weight of all other cattle divided by one thousand four hundred (1,400); plus
the combined weight of all swine divided by six hundred (600); plus the
combined weight of all sheep divided by one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250);
plus the combined weight of all goats divided by one thousand (1,000); plus the
combined weight of all horses divided by one thousand five hundred (1,500);
plus the combined weight of all chickens divided by three hundred fifty (350);
plus the combined weight of all turkeys divided by five hundred (500); plus the
combined weight of all ducks divided by two hundred (200). Where an AU is not
specifically defined in this title for an animal, an appropriate AU shall be
determined by the director with advice from the Idaho department of
agriculture.
ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar devices
used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves, external to or
attached to the exterior of any structure.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family development for sale,
rent, lease, let, or hire to be used as a single dwelling.
APPROVED USE: As used in this article shall include, but not be limited to: a
principal permitted use with master site plan approval, an approved conditional
use, or an approved planned unit development. For the purposes of this title, a
previously approved special exception, planned development (excluding final
plat), conditional use, or traffic and development plan shall be deemed an
approved use.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: Those unincorporated areas of Ada County surrounding each
incorporated city as identified in title 9 of this code, in accord with Idaho
Code section 67-6526.
ARTERIAL: See definition of Street, Arterial.
ARTERIAL, MINOR: A street designated as a minor arterial on the most recent Ada
County long range highway and street map adopted by the community planning
association of southwest Idaho.
ARTERIAL, PRINCIPAL: A street designated as a principal arterial on the most
recent Ada County long range highway and street map adopted by the community
planning association of southwest Idaho.
ATTACHED SECONDARY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Secondary Attached.
AUCTION ESTABLISHMENT: Premises on which merchandise is stored on a temporary
basis to be sold through an on-site auction.
AUTOMOBILE, MAJOR REPAIR: Any or all of the following activities: a) engine
rebuilding; b) major reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles; c)
collision service, including body, frame, or fender straightening or repair;
and d) overall painting of vehicles within an enclosed structure.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area, lot, land, or parcel where more than two
(2) motor vehicles without current registration or more than two (2) inoperable
or dismantled motor vehicles that are not in operating condition (or parts
thereof) are: a) standing more than thirty (30) days, b) dismantled, or c)
stored. The following uses are excluded from this definition: agricultural
equipment on a "farm" as herein defined, automotive hobby as set forth in
section
8-5-3-16 of this title, and vehicles stored or dismantled within a completely
enclosed structure.
AUTOMOTIVE, HOBBY: An accessory use involving the restoration, maintenance,
and/or preservation of not more than two (2) vehicles at any one time.
BAR: A structure used primarily for the sale or dispensing of liquor by the
drink or glass, but not including restaurants where the principal business is
serving food.
BARRIER: A vertical element including, but not limited to, a fence, wall,
structure, or a combination thereof, that completely surrounds an area and
controls access to such area.
BASE DISTRICT: The zone district classification, listed in section
8-2-1 of this title, in effect on any given property.
BEACON: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same property as the light source;
also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: An owner occupied dwelling providing overnight
accommodations and breakfast food service for no more than ten (10) occupants,
including the owner and owner's family.
BIOMASS FACILITY: A type of power facility that converts the energy stored in
renewable organic material into electricity. Renewable organic materials used
in the conversion process include, but are not limited to, wood, crops, animal
waste, garbage, landfill gas, biogas, and alcohol fuels.
BOARD: Board of Ada County commissioners.
BOARDING HOUSE: An establishment with individual rooms where meals and lodging
are provided for, with or without compensation, to more than two (2) but not
more than ten (10) persons. A boarding house shall include, but not be limited
to, a rooming house, shelter, convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity house,
sorority house, or any group of individuals whose association is temporary or
seasonal in nature. Hotels, motels, multi-family developments, and bed and
breakfast establishments, as herein defined, shall not be considered boarding
houses.
BREWERY: An establishment that brews thirty thousand (30,000) barrels of beer
or more annually and as defined by Idaho Code section 23-1003. The use may
include the ancillary sale or dispensing of beer or malt liquor by the drink or
glass.
BREWPUB: An establishment, or portion thereof, that brews less than thirty
thousand (30,000) barrels of beer annually and as defined by Idaho Code section
23-1003. The establishment may include a restaurant, sale of alcoholic
beverages by the drink or glass, and/or retail sale of the products of the
brewery.
BUFFER: A combination of physical space and vertical elements, including, but
not limited to, plants, berms, fences, and/or walls that separate and screen
incompatible land uses from one another.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: The area on a property exclusive of the required yards and
unbuildable areas (including, but not limited to, slopes in excess of 25
percent and areas within a designated floodway).
BUILDING MARKER: Any sign indicating the name of a structure, a date, or other
incidental information about its construction cut into a masonry surface or
made of bronze or other permanent material.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the Ada County building code, or the building
official's duly authorized representative.
CALIPER: A measurement of the diameter of the trunk of a deciduous tree. The
caliper of the trunk shall be measured six inches (6") above the ground for all
trees up to and including four inch (4") caliper size, and twelve inches (12")
above the ground for larger sizes.
CAMPGROUND: An area or tract of land that accommodates one or more temporary
residential uses, including, but not limited to, cabins, tents, campers, travel
trailers, motor homes, and/or recreational vehicles.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM (CIP): A plan that describes when urban public
facilities will be built, how much they will cost, and the source of funding. A
CIP usually covers a period of between three (3) and ten (10) years.
CAR WASH: An establishment or area that provides facilities for washing and
cleaning vehicles, which may use production line methods with a conveyor,
blower, or other mechanical devices, and that may employ some hand labor. The
facility may include vacuums and drying areas as accessory uses.
CELL TOWER HEIGHT: The distance from the finished grade at the tower base to
the highest point of the tower, plus twenty (20) feet to accommodate additional
antenna colocation.
CEMETERY, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE: A place dedicated to, used and intended to be used
for the permanent interment of the human dead, and shall include a burial plot
for earth interments, a mausoleum for vault or crypt interments, a crematory,
or a crematory and columbarium for cinerary interments, or a combination of one
or more of the above.
CENTRALIZED POWER FACILITY: A geothermal, solar, biomass, or hydroelectric
power facility where electricity is produced with a capacity greater than one
hundred (100) kilowatts and is transmitted to other locations for consumption.
CHILDREN'S TREATMENT FACILITY: An establishment, or portion thereof, that: a)
provides permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and
sanitation for more than eight (8) juveniles under eighteen (18) years old, and
b) provides treatment for substance abuse, mental illness, emotional
disturbance, developmental disability, mental retardation, or juveniles who
have been identified by the judicial system as requiring treatment, therapy,
rehabilitation, or supervision. For purposes of this title, this definition
shall include group foster homes with more than thirteen (13) juveniles.
CHURCH OR PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP: An establishment that by design and
construction is primarily intended for the conducting of organized religious
services, meetings, and associated activities.
CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE: An area at the intersection of two (2) streets that is
clear of sight obstructions to motorists, as defined in Idaho Code section 49-
221. See section
8-1A-2, "Figure 3: Clear Vision Triangle", of this article.
CLINIC, MEDICAL: An establishment, other than a "hospital", as herein defined,
shared by two (2) or more licensed physicians or dentists for the purpose of
treating human patients.
CLUB OR LODGE: An auxiliary, fraternal, or veterans' organization as defined by
Idaho Code section 23-902.
COLLECTOR: See definition of Street: Street, Collector.
COLLOCATION: The use of a single structure to support more than one wireless
telecommunication service provider's equipment, or the mounting of an antenna
to a preexisting structure.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: See definition of Kennel, Commercial.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of Ada County, Idaho.
COMPOSTING FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: Facility for the large scale production of
compost intended for sale and use on premises other than where such compost is
produced.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The duly adopted comprehensive plan for a political
subdivision of the state of Idaho pursuant to the "local land use planning
act", Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., as amended.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that, owing to some special characteristics attendant to
its operation or installation (for example, potential danger, hours of
operation, or noise), is permitted in a district subject to approval by the
planning and zoning commission and subject to special requirements as enabled
by Idaho Code section 67-6512.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate in real property as defined in Idaho Code section 55-
101B that is not a subdivision.
CONFINEMENT AREAS: Any area or structure where livestock and/or poultry are
stabled, confined, gathered, fed, maintained, and/or milked and where such
areas do not sustain crops, vegetation, forage growth, or postharvest residues
in the normal growing season.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest of a holder in real property
imposing limitations or affirmative obligations, the purposes of which include
retaining or protecting natural, scenic, or open space values of real property,
assuring its availability for agricultural, forest, recreational, or open space
use, protecting natural resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water
quality, or preserving the historical, architectural, archaeological, or
cultural aspects of real property 1 .
CONTIGUOUS PARCELS: Unplatted parcels held in one ownership that abut each
other at a common boundary. See also section
8-4A-8 of this title.
CONTINUOUS SERVICE DRIVE: A privately owned and maintained continuous drive
providing for ingress and egress to a public road, internal vehicle
circulation, and emergency access in a multi-family, commercial or industrial
development.
CONTRACTOR: A person who agrees to furnish materials or perform services at a
specified price, especially for construction. The term contractor shall
include, but not be limited to, building, landscaping, electrical, plumbing,
heating, or air conditioning contractors.
CONTRACTOR'S YARD: Any area of land used by a contractor for storage,
maintenance, or processing incidental to the business of building, hauling,
excavation, demolition, or similar activity and including any area of land used
for the incidental repair of machinery used for any of the above listed
activities.
CORNER PROPERTY: See definition of Property, Corner.
COUNTY: Ada County, Idaho.
COUNTY ENGINEER: That licensed professional engineer appointed by the board who
is responsible for all engineering matters for Ada County.
COUNTY SURVEYOR: That licensed professional land surveyor appointed by the
board to check plats and monuments for compliance with platting and surveying
laws, provide for surveying monument records, and make such surveys,
descriptions, maps, and plats as ordered by the board.
COVERAGE: The area of a property occupied by all structures.
CREMATORY: A facility where a dead person's body is cremated.
CUL-DE-SAC: See definition of Street: Street, Cul-De-Sac.
CUTOFF ANGLE: The angle formed by a line drawn from the direction of light rays
at the light source and a line perpendicular to the ground from the light
source, above which the light is emitted.
CUTOFF SHIELD, FULL: See definition of Full Cutoff Shield.
dBA: The A-weighted scale for measuring sound in decibels; weighs or reduces
the effects of low and high frequencies in order to simulate human hearing.
dNL: Day-night average A-weighted sound level; considers noise at night louder
than the same noise during working hours.
DAIRY: An operation whose principal function is the production of milk,
including the barn, processing facility, or feeding area where dairy animals
are kept, raised, or fed.
DANGEROUS OR PROTECTED ANIMAL: Any species for which the state or federal
government has established specific regulations regarding such animal
including, but not limited to, big cats, bears, raptors, large reptiles, and
other wildlife. The term shall not include any species commonly recognized as
domestic pets.
DAYCARE CENTER: A place or facility providing care and supervision for
compensation for part of a day, for thirteen (13) or more children not related
by blood or marriage to the person(s) providing the care. Day camps, day
programs and religious schools held for more than two (2) weeks during a
calendar year or held more often than once a week, are considered daycare
centers. The provision of occasional care exclusively for children of parents
who are simultaneously in the same building is not considered a daycare center.
DAYCARES:
   A.    FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: A home, place, or facility providing care and
supervision for compensation for part of a day, for six (6) or fewer children
not related by blood or marriage to the person providing the care, in a place
other than the children's own home. The occasional care of children by a person
not ordinarily in the business of childcare, and the provision of care for
children of only one immediate family in addition to the person's own children
are not considered family daycare homes.
   B.    GROUP DAYCARE FACILITY: A home, place or facility providing care and
supervision for compensation for part of a day, for seven (7) to twelve (12)
children not related by blood or marriage to the person(s) providing the care,
in a place other than the children's own home. The occasional care of children
by a person not ordinarily in the business of childcare, and the provision of
care for children of only one immediate family in addition to the person's own
children are not considered group daycare facilities.
DECISION MAKING BODY: The director, commission, or board, as set forth in
section
8-7-2 of this title.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for public use,
charitable, religious, or educational purposes.
DENSITY: The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development
divided by the total area. Should that number be a fraction, it shall be
rounded to the nearest whole number.
DENSITY, NET: The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a
development divided by the area devoted to residential uses (excluding roadways
and/or required dedicated open space). Should that number be a fraction, it
shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
DETACHED SECONDARY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Secondary Detached.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a structure, or any change in
use of a structure, or any change in the use, character, or appearance of land,
that creates additional demand and/or need for public facilities.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement as a condition of zoning ordinance
map amendment between the board and an owner or applicant concerning the use or
development of a property in accord with Idaho Code section 67-6511A and
chapter 7, article C of this title.
DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION: An application for development that requires approval
and/or action by the director, commission, or board.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Ada County development services department or an
authorized representative.
DISPLAY LIGHTING: See definition of Lighting, Display.
DISTRIBUTED POWER FACILITY: A wind or solar power facility where electricity is
primarily produced for use on site with excess supplied to a power grid. The
generation capacity shall be one hundred (100) kilowatts or less.
DOMESTIC PET: An animal kept for enjoyment and companionship that is housed
primarily inside a dwelling.
DRIVE AISLE: Provides access to off street parking spaces. In some instances, a
continuous service drive may also double as the drive aisle.
DRIVE-UP WINDOW: Any portion of a structure or structure from which business is
transacted, or is capable of being transacted, directly with customers located
in a motor vehicle.
DRIVE-UP WINDOW SERVICE: An establishment providing a "drive-up window" as
herein defined. The term drive-up window service shall include, but not be
limited to, providing food or beverage service, bank service, and/or film
processing. The term drive-up window service shall not include "gasoline,
diesel, or alternative fuel sales facility" or "car wash" as herein defined.
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TREATMENT FACILITY: An establishment, or portion thereof,
that: a) provides permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking,
and sanitation, and b) provides a treatment program for adult patients (18
years and older) with a drug and/or alcohol use problem. This definition shall
include a detoxification facility, inpatient facility, residential facility,
clinic, and outpatient facility as they relate to drug and alcohol treatment.
DRY MANURE: See definition of Manure, Dry.
DUPLEX: A structure containing two (2) dwelling units attached by a common
wall, where both dwelling units are located on the same property.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A structure, or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units or apartments, where all such units are located on the
same property. For the purposes of this title, a multi-family dwelling shall be
deemed multi- family development.
DWELLING OR DWELLING UNIT: Any structure, or portion thereof, providing
independent living facilities for one "family" as herein defined, including
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. See section
8-1A-2, figure 5 of this article, for types of dwellings.
DWELLING, SECONDARY ATTACHED: A dwelling unit that shares a common wall or
walls with the principal dwelling, has a separate outside entrance from the
principal dwelling, and is subordinate to the principal dwelling.
DWELLING, SECONDARY DETACHED: A dwelling unit that is located in a completely
separate structure from the principal dwelling and is subordinate to the
principal dwelling.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED: A structure containing two (2) dwelling units
attached by a common wall or walls, where each dwelling unit is located on a
separate property.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A. A detached structure that accommodates a
single dwelling.
   B.   A manufactured home that meets all of the following criteria:
      1.   The manufactured home is multisectional and encloses an area of not
less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      2.   The manufactured home is placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the structure is located not
more than twelve inches (12") above grade.
      3.   The exterior siding and roof are similar in color, material, and
appearance to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on
immediately surrounding properties.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A structure containing three (3) or more dwelling units
attached by common walls where each dwelling unit is located on a separate
property.
EASEMENT: A right of use, falling short of ownership, and usually for a certain
stated purpose, as defined by Idaho Code section 50-1301.
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE: Those lines carrying between seven (7) kV and
thirty five (35) kV of electricity directly to customers.
ELECTRIC SUBTRANSMISSION LINE: All lines forty six (46) kV, sixty nine (69) kV,
and one hundred thirty eight (138) kV carrying electricity between two (2)
substations.
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE: Those lines carrying from two hundred thirty (230)
kV to five hundred (500) kV of electricity from a power facility to a
substation.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD: A freestanding sign on which changeable copy is
provided by a digital readout.
EMPLOYEE: A person employed on the premises by the property owner and receiving
not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the employee's annual income from
said property owners.
ENDANGERED OR PROTECTED SPECIES RESEARCH FACILITY: A facility whose principal
purpose includes active captive breeding of endangered or protected animals.
The facility must have a public education initiative and allow general public
access to some portion of the facility. The operator shall possess a current
U.S. fish and wildlife service permit(s) that allows working with the
endangered or protected species being maintained on site.
ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business or residence with its furnishings and staff.
FALL ZONE: The area in which there is a potential hazard from falling debris
(such as ice) or collapsing structural components.
FAMILY: A. A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
marriage.
   B.   A group of not more than ten (10) persons who need not be related by
blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
   C.   Eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
elderly persons residing in a dwelling who are supervised at the dwelling in
connection with their handicap or age related infirmity, provided that no more
than two (2) staff members reside in the dwelling at any one time. (Resident
staff shall not be counted toward the "8 or fewer" criterion.)
FAMILY MEMBER: See definition of Member Of The Owner's Immediate Family.
FARM: A property in agricultural use that is five (5) acres in size or greater
and has obtained tax exempt status from the Ada County Assessor's office.
FARM RESIDENTIAL PARCEL: The residential parcel created as a result of a farm
development right.
FARMWORKER HOUSING COMPLEX: A complex of dwellings established for the purpose
of providing housing for migrant laborers of seasonal agricultural operations,
such as harvesting of agricultural crops.
FEDERALLY REGULATED CAFO: A confined animal feeding operation regulated by the
environmental protection agency for compliance with section 502(14) of the
clean water act and the national pollutant discharge elimination system.
FINAL PLAT: See definition of Plat, Final.
FIRE AUTHORITY: The chief officer or an authorized representative of the fire
department serving the jurisdiction.
FLAG: Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns,
or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other
entity.
FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCE STORAGE: An establishment, or portion thereof, wherein
combustible substances (as defined by the applicable fire code) are stored.
FOOTPRINT: Area of the ground covered by a structure, including the foundation
and all areas enclosed by exterior walls and/or footings.
FOSTER HOME, GROUP: An establishment, or portion thereof, that: a) provides
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation, and
b) provides foster care for seven (7) to thirteen (13) children under the age
of eighteen (18).
FOUNDRY: A workshop or factory for casting metal.
FREIGHT OR TRUCK TERMINAL: An establishment or area where freight (brought by
truck or rail) is transferred. The terminal facility may include storage or
repair areas for trucks or railcars. The term freight or truck terminal shall
not include a structure or area used for permanent or long term storage of
freight.
FRONT PROPERTY LINE: See definition of Property Line, Front.
FRONT YARD: See definition of Yard, Front.
FRONTAGE: A property line along either: a) a roadway, or b) a permanent access
easement to a public street that was of record prior to May 20, 1968, and has
been established by a clear chain of title in subsequent recorded deeds.
FRONTAGE STREET: See definition of Street: Street, Frontage.
FUEL CELL: A device that continuously changes the chemical energy of a fuel (as
hydrogen) and an oxidant directly into electrical energy.
FULL CUTOFF SHIELD: In its installed position, a light fixture with a full
cutoff shield will not allow any direct light above a horizontal plane and no
more than five percent (5%) of the total light output may come from the zone
from fifteen degrees (15°) below the horizontal to the horizontal plane. See
section
8-1A-2, figure 4 of this article.
GASOLINE, DIESEL, OR ALTERNATIVE FUEL SALES FACILITY: An establishment that
sells and supplies motor fuel, lubricating oils, alternative fuel, and/or
grease to on premises trade.
GLARE: Light emitted from a fixture with intensity great enough to cause visual
discomfort, eye fatigue, reduction in a viewer's ability to see and, in extreme
cases, momentary blindness.
GRADE: A. The degree of inclination of a slope, roadway, or other surface.
   B.   A slope or gradual inclination.
   C.   Top of ground upon completion of grading and landscaping.
GRADE, ADJACENT STREET: The grade at the top of the curb or the pavement edge
where no curb exists.
GRAIN ELEVATOR: A structure equipped with mechanical lifting devices used for
storing grain.
GRANDFATHER RIGHTS: See article B, "Nonconforming Property, Use, Or Structure",
of this chapter.
GREENHOUSE: Structures whose roof and sides are made largely of transparent or
translucent material and in which the temperature and humidity can be regulated
for the cultivation of plants.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The measure of total square footage of habitable space of a
structure.
GROUP FOSTER HOME: See definition of Foster Home, Group.
HABITABLE SPACE: Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating, or cooking.
Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility space, and
similar areas, are not considered habitable space.
HALF STREET: See definition of Street: Street, Half.
HALFWAY HOUSE: An establishment that provides housing for persons convicted of
nonviolent crimes that are in the later stages of serving a sentence and are
being transitioned back into society.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The Central district health department, the Idaho department
of health and welfare, the United States environmental protection agency, and
any agency as may succeed to any of their powers. The term health authority
shall be liberally construed to include all of the adopted, approved or
certified plans, rules, regulations, statutes or laws of the health authority.
HEAVY EQUIPMENT SALES, RENTAL OR SERVICE: The use of a site for the sale,
rental or servicing of tools, trucks, tractors, construction equipment,
agricultural implements, or similar industrial equipment.
HEAVY INDUSTRY: See definition of Industry, Heavy.
HIGHWAY: A street so designated as a state or federal highway by the state or
federal agency responsible therefor.
HOBBY KENNEL: See definition of Kennel, Hobby.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation, profession, or business activity that is
incidental and secondary to a dwelling unit and does not affect the rural or
residential character of the neighborhood.
HOSPITAL: A medical institution licensed by the state.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: An establishment that provides lodging to the public for a fee
as defined by Idaho Code section 67-4711, excluding boarding houses and bed and
breakfast establishments as herein defined.
ILLUMINATED, DIRECT: A light fixture that directs and concentrates light on a
sign.
ILLUMINATED, INTERNAL: A light source for a sign that is contained within the
sign and is visible only through a translucent surface or recessed into the
sign structure.
ILLUMINATED, NEON: A source of diffused light from a tube filled with neon,
helium, argon, krypton, and/or xenon.
ILLUMINATION, EXPOSED LAMP: A source of light visible from the street where the
lamp does not produce diffused light or where such lamp is not completely
covered by a translucent and/or opaque shield.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the
infiltration of water. It includes surfaces such as compacted sand, shale,
limerock, or clay, as well as most conventionally surfaced streets, roofs,
sidewalks, parking lots, and other similar structures.
IMPROVEMENT: Shall include, but not be limited to, roadway paving, curb,
gutter, sidewalk, pedestrian pathway, bike path, water line, sewer line,
drainage work, bus turnout, streetlight, and/or landscaping.
INDUSTRIAL: Refers to the manufacture, processing, fabrication, and testing of
goods and materials, including the production of power. It does not refer to
the growing of agricultural crops, the raising of livestock, or the extraction
or severance of raw materials.
INDUSTRY, HEAVY: A. A use engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of
materials or products, predominately from extracted or raw materials.
   B.   A use engaged in storage or manufacturing processes using flammable or
explosive materials.
   C.   Storage or manufacturing processes that potentially involve hazardous
or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
INDUSTRY, LIGHT: A use engaged in the manufacture, processing, fabrication,
assembly, treatment, and/or packaging of finished products or parts,
predominantly from previously prepared materials.
INNER APPROACH ZONE: An area inside the airport influence areas that has the
following dimensions: ten thousand feet (10,000') in length and beginning one
thousand feet (1,000') in width at the end of the overrun area and widening
uniformly to a width of four thousand feet (4,000') at a distance of ten
thousand feet (10,000') and having as its center line the continuation of the
center line of the landing strip.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: See definition of Vehicle, Inoperable.
INTERSTATE: A street that is designated as an interstate on the most current
Ada County long range highway and street map as adopted by the community
planning association of southwest Idaho.
JUNK: Discarded, used, or secondhand materials, including, but not limited to,
used machinery, scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, other ferrous and nonferrous
metals, tools, appliances, implements, vehicles or portions thereof, furniture,
beds and bedding, rags, glass, plastic, cordage, rubber, building materials
(excluding lumber), or other waste that has been abandoned from its original
use and may be used again in its present or in a new form.
JUNKYARD: An establishment as defined by Idaho Code section 40-111 where junk
is bought, sold, exchanged, stored, kept, processed, or handled.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any premises or portion thereof on which five (5) or more
domestic pets are maintained, harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded, or
cared for in return for compensation, but not including an animal clinic,
animal hospital, or veterinary office. Care for livestock and dangerous or
protected animals shall be subject to the standards established in sections
8-5-3-62 and
8-5-3-32 of this title.
KENNEL, HOBBY: A facility located at the private dwelling of the dog owner,
where five (5) to ten (10) of the owner's dogs are maintained for purposes of
breeding, hunting, organized field trials, obedience or training, competition,
security or for personal enjoyment.
LABORATORY: Facilities for biological, serological, biophysical, cytological,
and pathological tests, and facilities for the chemical or other examination of
materials from water, air or other substances, as defined by Idaho Code section
39-103.
LAGOON: An earthen structure designed to treat liquid manure through
biodegradation by bacteria.
LAUNDROMAT:
   A.   An establishment that provides washing, drying, and/or ironing machines
for hire, and/or
   B.   An establishment that provides washing, drying and/or ironing services
to retail customers.
LAUNDRY: An establishment that washes large quantities of laundry or dry
cleaning for commercial patrons in machines larger than standard laundry
machines.
LIGHT FIXTURE: A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source (lamp) and
all necessary mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts.
LIGHT FIXTURE, INSTALLED: The attachment, or assembly fixed in place, whether
or not connected to a power source, of any outdoor light fixture.
LIGHT FIXTURE, OUTDOOR: Outdoor electrically powered illuminating device,
outdoor lighting or reflective surface, lamp and similar device, permanently
installed or portable, used for illumination or advertisement. Such device
shall include, but is not limited to, search, spot, and floodlights for
buildings and structures; recreational areas; parking lot lighting; landscape
lighting; billboards and other signs (advertising or other); street lighting;
product display area lighting; building overhangs and open canopies.
LIGHT INDUSTRY: See definition of Industry, Light.
LIGHT TRESPASS: The extension of a light fixture's effective zone of light (as
defined by a photometric test report) beyond the boundaries of the property on
which it is located. See figure 6, section
8-1A-2 of this article.
LIGHTING, DISPLAY: The illuminating engineering society of North America
(IESNA) recommended practices and American national standards institute (ANSI)
standard lighting levels for display lighting.
LIGHTING, SECURITY: The IESNA recommended practices and ANSI standard lighting
levels for security lighting.
LIGHTING, TEMPORARY: Exterior light fixtures that are intended for use for a
period of less than seven (7) days, with at least one hundred eighty (180) days
passing before being used again.
LIQUID MANURE: See definition of Manure, Liquid.
LIVESTOCK: Poultry or other birds, horses, cattle, dairy cattle, swine, sheep,
llamas, goats, or other grazing animals, excluding any such animal kept as a
"domestic pet" as herein defined.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT FACILITY: Establishments where animals have been, are, or
will be stabled, confined, gathered, or concentrated and fed or maintained
(watered, cleaned, groomed, medicated, etc.) for a total of forty five (45)
days or more in any twelve (12) month period. The days do not have to be
consecutive.
LODGE: See definition of Club Or Lodge.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of ownership
and development.
LUMEN: A unit of luminous flux. One foot-candle is one lumen per square foot.
For the purposes of these regulations, the lumen- output values shall be the
initial lumen-output ratings of a light fixture.
MANUFACTURED HOME:
   A.   A dwelling constructed according to HUD/FHA construction and safety
standards and as defined by Idaho Code section 39-4105.
   B.   A rehabilitated dwelling certified by the state of Idaho department of
labor and industry, building safety division.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A residential development developed exclusively for
siting manufactured homes on individual spaces that are rented or leased.
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A residential subdivision developed exclusively
for siting manufactured homes on individual lots under individual ownership.
MANUFACTURING: Shall include the processing, packaging, or assembly of products
and incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding
those uses defined as heavy industry.
MANURE, DRY: Animal or poultry excreta that may also contain bedding, spilled
feed, or soil.
MANURE, LIQUID: Manure and any associated wastewater, including, but not
limited to: a) any excess water generated from the process and any
precipitation (rain or snow) that comes into contact with any manure, litter or
bedding, or any other material or product used in, or resulting from, animal or
poultry production or direct products (e.g., milk, eggs); and b) any water used
(directly or indirectly) in AFOs for any or all of the following: animal or
poultry watering system spillage or overflow; washing, cleaning, or flushing
pens, barns, manure pits or other facilities; direct contact swimming, animal
washing or spray cooling; and/or dust control.
MANURE STORAGE: An area or structure in which dry manure is stored or a
structure, pond, or tank in which liquid manure is stored but not treated.
MEATPACKING FACILITY: An establishment maintained for canning, curing, smoking,
salting, packing, freezing, storing, or other similar uses in which meat
products are processed for commercial sale.
MEDICAL CLINIC: See definition of Clinic, Medical.
MEMBER OF THE OWNER'S IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Any one of the following: a birth or
adoptive parent, stepparent, grandparent, children, grandchildren, sibling,
aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, or person under the owner's legal guardianship.
MINE: See definition of Pit, Mine, Or Quarry.
MINOR ARTERIAL: See definition of Arterial, Minor.
MORTUARY: A facility in which deceased human bodies are kept and prepared for
burial or cremation.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel Or Motel.
MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT: Development where there are three (3) or more
dwelling units or apartments located on the same property in an urban base
district or a planned community base district. A multi-family dwelling may or
may not be present on the property.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Multi-Family.
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION: A group that has filed registration forms with the
director, providing the name, boundaries, and representative of the
association.
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES: Abutting properties and any properties separated from
the subject property solely by a roadway or dedicated easement.
NIGHTCLUB: An establishment that provides live or recorded music and a dance
area for patrons inside a structure. A nightclub may or may not serve alcohol.
The term nightclub shall not include dance studios as herein defined.
NONCONFORMING PROPERTY:
   A.   A property that lawfully existed prior to the effective date of this
title, but that does not now conform to the dimensional standards for the
district in which it is located.
   B.   A property given amnesty under the regulations of subsection
8-1B-2B of this chapter.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign, sign structure, or use of a sign lawfully existing
prior to the effective date of this title but that does not now conform to the
dimensional standards for the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure, including agricultural structures, that
was lawfully constructed and/or existing prior to the effective date of this
title, but that does not conform to the dimensional standards for the district
in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use that lawfully existed prior to the effective date of
this title, but that does not now conform to the allowed uses for the district
in which it is located.
NON-FARM RESIDENTIAL LOT: Residential lot created by the former Non-farm
Subdivision regulations.
NONNOISE SENSITIVE DEVELOPMENT: A use that can be conducted within the noise
exposure forecast 30 area and that is not hindered from maintaining the use by
the Boise air terminal air traffic noise and associated vibration.
NURSERY, RETAIL: Any grounds, structures, greenhouses, or premises in which
garden, farm, landscaping, Christmas trees, or florist's stock is propagated,
grown, stored, or packed for commercial sale, and where the general public may
purchase goods in small quantities.
NURSERY, WHOLESALE: Any grounds, structures, greenhouses, or premises in which
garden, farm, landscaping, Christmas trees, or florist's stock is propagated,
grown, stored, or packed for commercial sale, and where the owner/operator
sells the goods in large quantities to a limited number of buyers.
NURSING FACILITY, SKILLED: An establishment that provides permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation and that provides
healthcare needs to more than eight (8) individuals who, at a minimum, require:
a) inpatient care and services for twenty four (24) or more consecutive hours
for unstable chronic health problems, b) daily professional nursing supervision
and licensed nursing care on a twenty four (24) hour basis, and c) restorative,
rehabilitative care and assistance in meeting daily living needs. Medical
supervision may be necessary on a regular, but not daily, basis. A skilled
nursing facility shall include, but not be limited to: nursing home, nursing
facility, convalescent home, intermediate care, and subacute care.
OFF STREET PARKING FACILITY: An enclosed structure (other than a private
garage) or open, hard surfaced area (other than a public street or private
road), designed, arranged, and made available for parking vehicles, where such
use is operated as a business enterprise with a service charge or fee being
paid by the vehicle operator. Off street parking facility shall include, but
not be limited to, a commercial parking lot and public garage.
OPEN SPACE: Land or water left in an undisturbed natural condition and
unoccupied by building lots, structures, streets, or parking lots, except as
otherwise specified in chapter 4, article J of this title.
OPEN SPACE, DEDICATED: An area that has been designated on a master site plan
or subdivision plat as open space.
OPEN SPACE, DEVELOPED: An area of open land used for recreational opportunities
and that provides either active or passive recreational facilities.
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL: An area of open land, with little or no land disturbance,
preserved, enhanced and/or restored in order to maintain the natural, scenic,
ecological, cultural, hydrological, geological, or agricultural values of the
land. Natural open space may include trails and park bench style seating;
interpretive signage and kiosks for educational purposes; and agricultural
activities.
OUTDOOR STORAGE OF MATERIALS: Material (including, but not limited to, goods,
wares, merchandise, or vehicles) that is kept in the same place for more than
twenty four (24) hours in an open area. The term outdoor storage shall include
material that is kept under a pole barn structure or any structure that is less
than fully enclosed.
OWNER: A "person", as herein defined, having sufficient proprietary interest in
the land to maintain proceedings under this title.
PARCEL: A tract of unplatted land (or contiguous land, if applicable), in
single ownership, considered a unit for purposes of development.
PARCEL OF RECORD: A parcel of land that was of record in the Ada County
recorder's office prior to January 1, 1985.
PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
PERSON: Includes, but is not limited to, an individual, associations, joint
ventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations, and all other or any other similar entity.
PIT, MINE, OR QUARRY: The various activities associated with excavating
valuable minerals from the ground, including, but not limited to, excavating a
pit, removing the resource, processing the resource, disposing of unwanted
material, and building a roadway to accommodate hauling trucks.
PLANNED COMMUNITY (PC): A well designed small town or urban type development
characterized by a wide mix of uses, on site amenities, trip capture, and
connectivity within the community; conservation of open space and preservation
of environmental attributes; an emphasis on community character and heritage
and forming a sense of community; and provision of urban public services.
PLANNED COMMUNITY IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: A plan submitted in compliance with this
title demonstrating how a PC will be developed in compliance with the
requirements of this title.
PLANNED COMMUNITY SUBAREA COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan text for a
subarea encompassed by a PC base district and specific PC overlay district.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, cemetery, or other
tract of land, or a replatting of such, including certifications, descriptions,
and approvals and containing those elements and requirements set forth in
section
8-6-4-3 of this title.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A development plan of a subdivision, containing the elements
and requirements set forth in section
8-6-4-2 of this title. A preliminary plat is a final document and is not
considered to be of a preliminary nature and is used as a guide for the
preparation of the final plat.
POWER FACILITY: A facility associated with the production or transmission of
electricity, including wind, geothermal, solar, biomass, and hydroelectric
power facilities; or a power substation, an electric substation, a grid
switching site, or an electric transmission, subtransmission or distribution
line, any of which may or may not be regulated by the federal energy regulatory
commission; or a facility qualifying under 18 CFR part 131.80.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: See definition of Plat, Preliminary.
PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL: See definition of Arterial, Principal.
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE: The use of land or a structure allowed in a specific
zoning base or overlay district as distinguished from an accessory or
conditional use.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: For any given property, the structure in which the
principal use is conducted.
PRIVATE ROAD: A roadway that is not dedicated to the public, that is not a part
of the public highway system, and that is approved pursuant to chapter 4,
article D of this title.
PRODUCE: Raw and unprocessed fruits, vegetables, or herbs.
PROGRAMMED: Included in the capital improvements program of a city, Ada County,
a planned community provider outside of an area of impact, a taxing district,
or a regulated public utility, as being constructed within five (5) years. If a
capital improvements program has not been adopted, "programmed" shall mean a
transferable memorandum of understanding between the provider of the urban
public facility and the applicant, that a needed public facility will be
provided within one year.
PROHIBITED USE: Any use within a district not listed as a principal permitted,
accessory, or conditional use in this title.
PROPERTY: A "lot" or "parcel" as herein defined.
PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: The division for conveyance of a lot or parcel
for the purpose of adjusting the boundary between properties where: a) the
dimensions of the properties are not reduced below the minimum dimensional
standards for the applicable district; b) there is no increase in the original
number of properties; and c) no easements, public streets, private roads or
publicly dedicated areas are affected. A property boundary adjustment shall not
move or affect the location of any platted lot line.
PROPERTY, CORNER: A lot or parcel abutting upon two (2) or more streets at
their intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or
parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred
thirty five degrees (135°). The point of intersection of the street lines is
the "corner".
PROPERTY DEPTH: The horizontal distance that connects the front property line
and the rear property line as measured perpendicular to any point along the
front property line.
PROPERTY LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot or parcel from the street on
which it takes access.
PROPERTY LINE, REAR: The property line opposite and most distant from the front
property line. Where the lot or parcel is irregular and the property lines
converge, the rear property line shall be deemed to be a line at a point where
the side property lines are not less than ten feet (10') apart.
PROPERTY LINE, SIDE: Any property lines other than a front or rear property
line. A side property line separating a lot or parcel from a street is called a
side street property line. A side property line separating a lot or parcel from
another lot or parcel is called an interior side property line.
PROPERTY LINES: Lot lines or parcel boundaries.
PROPERTY OF RECORD: A property of record in the Ada County recorder's office as
of January 1, 1985.
PROPERTY SIZE: The computed horizontal area contained within the property
lines.
PROPERTY, THROUGH: A lot or parcel other than a corner property having frontage
on two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets.
PROPERTY WIDTH: The horizontal distance that connects opposing side property
lines as measured perpendicular to any point along the side property lines.
PUBLIC AMENITY: Shall include, but not be limited to, the following: school
site, bike path, transit facility, park site, park and ride lot, and public
safety facility such as police, fire, or emergency medical facilities.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Shall include, but not be limited to: a) fire station; b) law
enforcement; c) library; d) post office; e) public administration building
(exclusive of shop, garage); f) hospital, skilled nursing facility, or
residential care facility; g) emergency medical service facility; h) halfway
house and work release facility; and i) juvenile detention facility.
PUBLIC HIGHWAY AGENCY: The Ada County highway district or the Idaho
transportation department.
PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY: Shall include, but not be limited to: a)
pumping station for water, sewer, or gas; b) municipal wastewater collection
and treatment facility or interim wastewater treatment system; c) utility shop,
garage, or storage facility; d) park and ride lot; e) water reservoir and water
tank; or f) storm drainage facility and storm detention facility.
PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Shall include, but not be limited to, public
buildings and/or public infrastructure facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way open to the public and subject to the
jurisdiction of a public highway agency, where the public highway agency has no
obligation to construct or maintain said right of way for vehicular traffic.
PUBLIC STREET: See definition of Street: Street, Public.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Facilities owned and operated by a public utility as defined in
Idaho Code section 61-129.
QUALIFYING PROPERTY: A lot or parcel that is the subject of a proposed
development application and that meets the applicability requirements as set
forth in this title.
QUARRY: See definition of Pit, Mine, Or Quarry.
RACETRACK: A structure, or portion thereof, used for racing vehicles or animals
for recreation or profit and that may include accessory uses and structures
normally associated with this activity.
REAR PROPERTY LINE: See definition of Property Line, Rear.
REAR YARD: See definition of Yard, Rear.
RECREATION FACILITY: See definition of Amusement Or Recreation Facility.
RECREATION ITEM, PERSONAL: The term personal recreation item shall include, but
not be limited to, bus, boat, snowmobile, horse trailer, and all-terrain
vehicle.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY, ACTIVE: Recreational opportunity involving moderate to
high intensity use which may require modification of natural landforms and the
provision of service facilities, playing fields or equipment. Examples include,
but are not limited to: playground equipment, sports fields, surfaced courts,
volleyball courts, swimming pools, skateparks, multipurpose centers and open
play areas.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY, PASSIVE: Recreational opportunity occurring in a natural
setting requiring minimal development or facilities and providing areas for
informal, self-directed activities for individuals or small groups. Examples
include, but are not limited to: trails; pathways; picnic shelters; park bench
style seating; interpretive signage and kiosks for educational purposes;
community gardens; golf courses; and structures, streets and parking areas
accessory to these uses.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A portable structure primarily designed as temporary
living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use and as defined
in Idaho Code section 49-119.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A premises upon which two (2) or more parking sites
are located, established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles
for temporary use for recreation or vacation purposes.
RECYCLING CENTER: An establishment that is not a junkyard and in which
recoverable resource materials, such as paper products, glassware, and metal
cans, are collected, sorted, flattened, crushed, or bundled within a completely
enclosed structure prior to shipment to others who use such resource materials
to manufacture new products.
RECYCLING PLANT: An establishment that is not a junkyard and in which
recoverable resource materials, such as paper products, glassware, and metal
cans, are recycled, reprocessed, and treated to return such products to a
condition in which they may be reused for production.
REMEDIATION: Structures and/or activities that remove contaminates from soil or
water.
REMEDIATION, IN SITU: Remediation that occurs on the same site where the
contaminated soil or water exists. In situ remediation does not involve removal
or transportation of soil or water off site.
REQUIRED YARD: See definition of Yard, Required.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY: An establishment that has facilities or
laboratories for scientific research, investigation, testing, or
experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products,
except as incidental to the main purpose of the facility.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: An establishment that provides permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation and that provides twenty
four (24) hour nonmedical care for more than eight (8) individuals who need
personal care or assistance and supervision. A residential care facility shall
include, but not be limited to, assisted living facility, retirement home, and
respite care.
RESTAURANT: Any eating establishment having kitchen and cooking facilities for
the preparation of food and where meals are regularly served to the public for
compensation.
RETAIL SALES: The sale, distribution, presentation, demonstration, or supply of
goods to consumers through or at a retail store.
RETAIL STORE: The use of a site that offers merchandise to the public for
monetary compensation. The use includes, but is not limited to, convenience
stores; food stores; apparel and accessories stores; book, computer, and music
stores; electronics and appliances; florists; furniture and home furnishings;
general merchandise stores; health and personal care stores; hobby, office
supplies, stationary and gift stores; specialty stores, sporting goods; and
used merchandise stores.
RIGHT OF WAY: See definition of Public Right Of Way.
ROADSIDE PRODUCE STAND: An establishment where "produce" as defined in this
section, the majority of which is grown on the premises, is displayed and sold
to the general public on a seasonal basis. No other commodities may be sold.
ROADWAY: Any public street or approved private road.
RURAL RESIDENCE: Farm development right parcels, non-farm residential lots, and
non-conforming residential properties under 2.5 acres in a rural base district.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing
of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental and health hazards by
spreading, compacting, and covering the solid wastes. Solid wastes shall be
limited to those outlined in title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE: An institution of learning that offers academic
instruction in the courses that are required by the state of Idaho to be taught
in public schools. "School" includes kindergarten, elementary, middle, junior
high, and senior high. Privately funded schools whose curriculum meets the
state of Idaho standards shall be included in this definition.
SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL OR TRADE: A proprietary school as defined by Idaho Code
section 33-2401.
SEASONAL STAND: Shall include, but not be limited to, fireworks, snow cone, or
Christmas tree stands.
SECTION LINE STREET: See definition of Street: Street, Section Line.
SECURITY LIGHTING: See definition of Lighting, Security.
SELF-SUPPORTING UNIT: A stand alone module of a planned community that
generates enough revenue, as demonstrated by the approved implementation plan
pro forma, to support the construction and operation of appropriate urban
public services required to serve each dwelling unit therein.
SEPTAGE: A general term for the contents removed from septic tanks, portable
vault toilets, privy vaults, or wastewater holding tanks receiving wastewater
from domestic sources. Nondomestic (industrial) waste may also be present, but
is not considered part of the definition. This does not include drinking water
treatment residuals that may be held in a holding tank.
SEPTAGE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY, PRIVATE: An establishment that
provides for the treatment and disposal of septage and is under private
ownership.
SETBACK: The minimum required distance between the property line and the
nearest structure.
SHADOW FLICKER: The on and off flickering effect of a shadow caused when the
sun passes behind the rotor of a wind turbine.
SHOOTING RANGE: An establishment, indoor or outdoor, that allows for the safe
practice of shooting firearms and that may include accessory uses and
structures normally associated with this activity.
SIDE PROPERTY LINE: See definition of Property Line, Side.
SIDE YARD: See definition of Yard, Side.
SIGN: Any sign copy, logo, or other representation that directly, or
indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business, product,
service, or other commercial, industrial, or public activity.
   Sign, Animated: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or to create a special effect.
   Sign, Banner: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
permanently mounted to a pole or a structure by a permanent frame at one or
more edges. National flags, state or municipal flags, or the official flag of
any institution or business shall not be considered banners.
   Sign, Building: A sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted to
a freestanding sign.
   Sign, Canopy: Any sign that is a part of, or attached to, an awning, canopy,
or other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
   Sign, Changeable Copy: A sign, or portion thereof, with characters, letters,
or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight
(8) times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a changeable
copy sign for purposes of this title. A sign on which the only copy that
changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature shall
be considered a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and not a changeable
copy sign for purposes of this title.
   Sign, Freestanding: A sign whose background or copy area is wholly supported
by a column, pole, foundation, pedestal or other support structure in or upon
the ground and that is independent from any structure or other structure.
   Sign, Identification: A sign that states the name and address of the
business only.
   Sign, Incidental: A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the property on which it is located, such as "no
parking", "no smoking", "entrance", "loading only", "telephone", and other
similar directives. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position
off the property on which the sign is located shall be considered incidental.
   Sign, Internal: Signs within structures that are not intended as window or
wall signs. The text of the sign is oriented toward individuals within the
structure.
   Sign, Marquee: Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of any
permanent roof like structure projecting beyond a structure or extending along
and projecting beyond the wall of the structure, generally designed and
constructed to provide protection from the weather. A canopy sign is not a
marquee sign.
   Sign, Parapet: Any sign attached parallel to, but within one foot (1') of, a
parapet, painted on the parapet surface of, or erected and confined on a
parapet of any structure, which is supported by such parapet or structure, and
which displays only one sign surface.
   Sign, Portable: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used as
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible from the public right of way, unless said vehicle
is used in the normal day to day operations of the business.
   Sign, Projecting: Any sign affixed to a structure or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than one foot (1') beyond the surface of
such structure or wall.
   Sign, Roof: Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of
a structure, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above
the highest portion of the roof. Parapet signs, as herein defined, shall not be
deemed roof signs.
   Sign, Suspended: A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and supported by such surface.
   Sign, Temporary: Any sign that is designed and intended for use less than
twelve (12) months and that is not permanently mounted.
   Sign, Wall: Any sign attached parallel to, but within one foot (1') of, a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any structure, which is supported by such wall or
structure, and which displays only one sign surface.
   Sign, Window: Any sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service, which is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or glass and
is visible from the exterior of the window.
SIGN BACKGROUND AREA: The area of the sign copy and any remaining area capable
of containing copy, but not including the supporting structure.
SIGN COPY: The graphic content of a sign in either permanent or removable
letter, pictographic, symbolic, or alphabetic form.
SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING: See definition of dwelling, single-family
attached.
SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING: See definition of dwelling, single-family
detached.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: An establishment where animals are killed and rendered for
commercial sale. A slaughterhouse may include a meatpacking facility as an
accessory use.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: Any unstaffed facility used to transmit, receive,
distribute, provide or offer personal wireless communications services, with
antennas and associated equipment, that do not exceed the volumes specified
below:
   A.   Each individual antenna, excluding all other wireless equipment
associated with the facility, is individually no more than three (3) cubic feet
in volume, and all antennas on the structure total no more than six (6) cubic
feet in volume; and
   B.   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility, excluding
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, do not cumulatively
exceed:
      1.   Twenty eight (28) cubic feet on all non- pole-type support
structures that can support fewer than three (3) providers; or
      2.   Twenty one (21) cubic feet on all monopoles and pole-type support
structures that can support fewer than three (3) providers; or
      3.   Thirty five (35) cubic feet on all non-pole- type support structures
that can support at least three (3) providers; or
      4.   Twenty eight (28) cubic feet on all monopoles and pole-type support
structures that can support at least three (3) providers.
   C.   The volume of any equipment that is not visible from public spaces at
the ground level from two hundred fifty feet (250') or less may be omitted from
the calculation of volumetric limits set forth in this definition.
SMALL WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A structure that can support a small wireless
facility. Includes, but is not limited to, monopoles, light poles, traffic
signal poles, utility poles, any pole used for adornments, base stations,
buildings, water tanks, transmission towers, billboards, and other freestanding
self- supporting structures.
SOCIAL HALL: An establishment, or portion thereof, used for social gatherings
including, but not limited to, weddings, receptions, dinners, bazaars,
banquets, and reunions.
SOLAR COLLECTOR MOUNTS: Mounting arrangements that hold various devices for the
absorption of solar radiation for the heating of water or buildings or the
production of electricity, consisting of:
   Building Integrated Photovoltaics Mount: A solar collector system that is
integrated into the structure of a building. Common building integrated
photovoltaic applications include carports, awnings, and curtain walls.
   Ground Mount: A solar collector system where an array is mounted onto the
ground. The most common type of ground mount is a wedge structure constructed
from steel supports anchored in concrete footings. The remainder of the
structure is built from aluminum or galvanized steel.
   Pole Mount: A solar collector system that consists of an array that is
mounted on top of a single steel pole, which is ground mounted. This type of
installation can be manually adjustable, so that the pitch of the array at
different times of the year can be changed.
   Roof Mount: A solar collector system with an array of solar panels located
on the roof of a structure. In most cases this array will be attached directly
to the structural members of the building.
SOLAR FACILITY: Any solar collection or other solar device, or any structural
design feature of a building whose primary purpose is to provide for the
collection, storage or distribution of solar energy for space heating or
cooling, water heating or electricity. Solar collection methods include, but
are not limited to, photovoltaic panels, solar thermal collectors, passive
solar, and concentrating solar power.
SPECIAL EVENTS: Any temporary event including, but not limited to, picnics,
barbecues, holiday events and parties, dances, concerts, bike rides and races,
footraces and walks, auctions and sales, bazaars, sales or marketing events,
and harvest festivals and events.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered part of the human body
consisting of: 1) human genitals, 2) pubic region, 3) buttock, 4) anus, 5)
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, but shall
not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by
a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel,
provided that the areola is not exposed.
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence.
   B.   Acts of human anilingus, bestiality, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia,
cunnilingus, fellatio, flagellation, masochism, masturbation, necrophilia,
pederasty, pedophilia, sadism, sadomasochism, sapphism, sexual intercourse, and
sodomy.
   C.   Fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock,
anus or female breast.
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE: A structure or group of structures with a
controlled access and fenced compound that contains individual,
compartmentalized, or controlled units that are leased or sold to store
material (including, but not limited to, goods, wares, merchandise, or
vehicles). This use may also include an outdoor storage area within the fenced
compound.
STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE, OUTDOOR ONLY: The use of a site where vehicles,
RVs, trailers, or other similar items are stored outside in identified spaces
and within a fenced compound.
STORY: Shall be as defined by Ada County Building Code as set forth in title 7,
chapter 2 of this code, except that any single- story structure, or portion
thereof, that exceeds twenty four feet (24') in height shall be deemed a two-
story structure.
STRADDLE DANCE: An employee's use of any part of his or her body to touch the
human genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast of a nonemployee
while at the establishment, or the touching of the human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast of any employee by a nonemployee while
at the establishment. Conduct shall be a straddle dance regardless of whether
the "touch" or "touching" occurs while the employee is displaying or exposing
any specified anatomical area. Conduct shall also be a straddle dance
regardless of whether the "touch" or "touching" is direct or through a medium.
The terms lap dance, table dance, and face dance are considered straddle dance.
STREET: A street, public road, thoroughfare, alley, highway or a right of way
that may be open for public use but is not part of a public highway system nor
subject to the jurisdiction of a public highway agency.
   Street, Alley: A public means of secondary access to abutting property that
is not for general traffic circulation or street frontage.
   Street, Arterial: A street designated as an arterial on the most recent Ada
County long range highway and street map adopted by the Community Planning
Association Of Southwest Idaho. See also definitions of Arterial, Minor and
Arterial, Principal.
   Street, Collector: A street designated as a collector on the most recent Ada
County long range highway and street map adopted by the Community Planning
Association Of Southwest Idaho.
   Street, Cul-De-Sac: A dead end street provided with a turnaround at its
terminus.
   Street, Frontage: A minor street parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street providing access to abutting properties and protection from through
traffic.
   Street, Half: A portion of the width of a street, usually along the edge of
a subdivision, where the remaining portion of the street could be provided in
another subdivision.
   Street, Highway: See definition of Highway.
   Street, Interstate: See definition of Interstate.
   Street, Local: A street used primarily for access to abutting properties.
   Street, Minor Arterial: See definition of Arterial, Minor.
   Street, Principal Arterial: See definition of Arterial, Principal.
   Street, Public: A street, public road, thoroughfare, alley, highway, or
bridge subject to the jurisdiction of a public highway agency.
   Street, Section Line: A section line street as designated on the most recent
Ada County long range highway and street map adopted by the Community Planning
Association Of Southwest Idaho.
STREET FRONTAGE: The linear distance that a property line abuts a public street
or approved private road providing access, from one property line intersecting
said street to the farthest distant property line intersecting the same street.
STREET ISLAND: A lot and block in a subdivision located in the public street
right of way. The street island shall be considered a nonbuildable lot for
development purposes.
STREET KNUCKLE: An extension of a minor street providing access to abutting
properties.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground.
STUDIO: A structure, or portion thereof, used as a place of work and/or
instruction by an artist or artisan. The term studio shall include, but not be
limited to, art, music, gymnastic, dance, martial arts, photography, or video
production studios and classrooms. The term studio, as used in this title,
shall not include a single room apartment or dwelling.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot or parcel of land, into two (2) or more lots
for the purpose of conveyance of ownership or for building development; and the
recorded plat thereof.
SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE: A final plat shall be deemed to be in substantial
conformance to a preliminary plat provided that the final plat represents no
increase in the number of lots as approved for the preliminary plat and a ten
percent (10%) or less deviation of any dimensional standard shown on the
preliminary plat, provided that the density and lot dimensions meet the
standards of the zoning base district. Unless required by a public highway
agency, public utility, or federal or state agency, deviations greater than ten
percent (10%) or more of any dimensional standard shown on the preliminary plat
shall not be deemed in substantial conformance. Final plats in rural districts
and the RUT and RSW districts shall be allowed a twenty five percent (25%)
deviation of dimensional standards.
SWALE: A shallow depression.
SWIMMING POOL: Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing that
can contain water over two feet (2') in depth. This includes inground and
aboveground swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas.
TASTING ROOM: An establishment that provides a winery an opportunity to allow
visitors to taste wine. A tasting room may also offer sales of wine and other
related items. These may include, but are not limited to, the following:
glasses, decanters, books, racks, corkscrews, T-shirts, posters, and such food
items considered snacks, such as bread, breadsticks, crackers, cheese, and hors
d'oeuvres (appetizers).
TEMPORARY LIGHTING: See definition of Lighting, Temporary.
TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: A "manufactured home", as herein defined, permitted
as a temporary dwelling for a member of the owner's immediate family on the
same property as the principal permitted use.
THROUGH PROPERTY: See definition of Property, Through.
TOWNHOUSE DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Townhouse.
TRADE SCHOOL: See definition of School, Vocational Or Trade.
TRANSIT FACILITY: Shall include, but not be limited to, a bus or rail station.
TRANSMISSION LINE: See definition of Electric Transmission Line.
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY: The Ada County highway district, the Idaho
transportation department, the city of Boise (Boise urban stages) and any other
agency that may succeed to their powers or establish public jurisdiction in the
field of transportation. The term transportation authority shall be liberally
construed to include all the adopted, approved, or certified plans, rules,
regulations, statutes, or laws of the transportation authority.
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT: The application of strategies and policies
for the purpose of reducing single occupant vehicle trips to optimize use of
existing and planned transportation facilities.
TRAVELWAY: The improved surface required within a private road easement.
TRIP: A single or one direction vehicle movement with either the origin or
destination inside the subject property.
TRUCK STOP: A roadside service and fueling station that caters to federal
interstate truckers.
TRUCK TERMINAL: See definition of Freight Or Truck Terminal.
UNDUE ADVERSE IMPACTS: Measurable increases in noise, light, odor, visual, or
other measurable impacts that diminish use or enjoyment of property or are
detrimental to the public health, safety, and/or welfare.
UNPLATTED: A property that is not included in any subdivision of record in Ada
County.
UPLIGHTING: Lighting that is directed in such a manner as to shine light rays
above the horizontal plane.
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITIES: Schools, natural and developed open space, library,
electricity, telephone, water, wastewater, transportation, law enforcement,
fire and paramedic capital facilities provided by a city, taxing district,
regulated public utility, or when located in a planned community base district,
a provider as allowed by chapter 8 of this title.
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITY, PROGRAMMED: An urban public facility included in the
capital improvements program of a municipality, taxing district, planned
community provider, or a regulated public utility, scheduled in the relevant
entity's capital improvements program for construction within five (5) years
from approval of the planned community overlay district which the urban public
facility will serve.
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE, PROGRAMMED: An urban public service included in the
capital improvements or service provision program of a municipality, taxing
district, planned community provider, or a regulated public utility, scheduled
in the relevant entity's capital improvements or service provision program for
provision within five (5) years from approval of a planned community overlay
district in which the urban public service will be provided.
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICES: Schools, natural and developed open space, library,
electricity, telephone, water, wastewater, transportation, law enforcement,
fire and paramedic services provided by a city, taxing district, a regulated
public utility, or when located in a planned community base district, a
provider as allowed by chapter 8 of this title.
URBAN SERVICE PLANNING AREA: The land area within an area of city impact where
urban public facilities are available or planned, as provided and described in
the city's comprehensive plan.
USED: Shall include arranged, designed, constructed, altered, converted,
rented, leased, or intended to be used.
VALUABLE MINERALS: A mineral substance that can be taken from the earth and
that has a value in and of itself separate and apart from the earth and
includes, but is not limited to, gravel, sand, clay, building stone, cinders,
pumice, scoria, diatomaceous earth, quartz, limestone, marble, gold, silver,
copper, lead, zinc, coal, and phosphate.
VARIANCE: A relief from development standards as allowed by this title and as
enabled by Idaho Code section 67-6516.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn (e.g., travel trailers) upon a public highway, excepting
devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks, as defined in Idaho Code section 49-123.
VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL: Any currently licensed and operable motor vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight rating over twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds and as
defined by Idaho Code section 49-123.
VEHICLE, INOPERABLE: A vehicle that cannot move under its own power or does not
meet the minimum legal requirements necessary for the motor vehicle to be
operated in a safe and lawful manner upon the roadways and highways in the
state of Idaho, as set forth in Idaho Code chapter 49.
VEHICLE SALES OR SERVICES:
   A.    Automobile Sales Or Service: The sale, trade, or lease of new or used
passenger automobiles (including, but not limited to cars, sport utility
vehicles, light duty trucks, and/or vans) in operating condition and any
automobile repair work or minor service. Repair work or minor service shall
include, but not be limited to, replacement of parts (e.g., tires, shocks,
brakes, mufflers, windshields, radiators, upholstery), oil change, minor engine
repair, tune-up, and accessory sales of replacement parts. Any operation
specified under automobile, major repair is excluded.
   B.    Recreational Vehicle Sales Or Service: The sale, trade, or lease of
new or used recreational vehicles or personal recreation items in operating
condition and any repair work or minor service. Repair work or minor service
shall include, but not be limited to, replacement of parts (e.g., tires,
shocks, brakes, mufflers, windshields, radiators, upholstery), oil change,
minor engine repair, tune up, and accessory sales of replacement parts. Any
operation specified under automobile, major repair is excluded.
VETERINARY OFFICE: See definition of Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital Or
Veterinary Office.
VISION TRIANGLE: See definition of Clear Vision Triangle.
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL: See definition of School, Vocational Or Trade.
WAREHOUSE: A structure used primarily for storing materials including, but not
limited to, goods, wares, merchandise, or vehicles.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL: An installation that collects and
treats domestic wastewater from one property and uses, at a minimum, subsurface
disposal of effluent and conforms to the rules, regulations, and adopted plans
of the health authority.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or manmade channel or conveyance system carrying water.
Watercourses may include, but not be limited to, rivers, creeks, streams,
lakes, reservoirs, irrigation ditches, laterals, drains, sloughs, and canals.
An on site irrigation distribution system or drainage ditch shall not be deemed
a watercourse.
WELL HOUSE: A structure encasing a well used to provide domestic water.
WELL, ON SITE: A domestic well that serves one property, and is located on the
property it serves.
WETLANDS: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil condition. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas.
WIND FACILITY: A wind energy conversion system that converts wind energy into
electricity through the use of a wind driven turbine generator, consisting of
one or more wind turbines or other such devices and their related or supporting
facilities that produce electric power from wind.
WIND FACILITY, ROOFTOP: A wind facility mounted to a residential, agricultural,
or accessory structure.
WIND FACILITY TOWER HEIGHT: The distance from the finished grade at the wind
generation tower base to the highest point of the tower, including the base
pad, mounting structures and blades, but not including lightning rods.
WINERY: An establishment for the manufacture or bottling of wine. A winery may
include, but is not limited to, the following: a tasting room, barrel rooms,
bottling rooms, tank rooms, laboratories, sale of wine, processing structure,
and offices.
WORK: See definition of Substantial Amount Of Work.
YARD, FRONT: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying
between the front property line and the nearest line of a principal structure.
YARD, FRONT PLANE: An area extending from the designated front of the dwelling
(front door/garage) to the nearest street.
YARD, REAR: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying
between the rear property line and the nearest line of the principal structure.
YARD, REQUIRED: An area that extends along a property line to a depth or width
specified in the setback regulations for the district in which the property is
located. (See section
8-4A-10 of this title for required yard exceptions.)
YARD, SIDE: An area extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the
side property line and the nearest line of the principal structure.
YEAR ROUND STREAM: Any stream that flows all year long during years of normal
rainfall or any stream used by salmonids.
ZERO LOT LINE: The location of a structure on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the structure's sides rests directly on a lot line.
ZONING CERTIFICATE: A document issued by the Director that certifies that the
structure or use meets the requirements of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 560, 8-24-2004;
amd. Ord. 591, 7-27-2005; amd. Ord. 592, 8-2-2005; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007;
amd. Ord. 692, 4-23-2008; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 713, 11-12-2008;
amd. Ord. 726, 4-8-2009; amd. Ord. 731, 7-29-2009; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010;
amd. Ord. 755, 7-21-2010; amd. Ord. 763, 10-13-2010; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011;
amd. Ord. 797, 4-24-2012; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016;
amd. Ord. 894, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 55-2101.
8-1A-2: FIGURES:
Figure 1: Distance and Height Measurements. Repealed.
Figure 2: Noise Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2034.gif]
 
Figure 3: Clear Vision Triangle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2038.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2040.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2042.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2044.gif]
 
Figure 7: Wind Facility Fall Zone And Setback (Overhead View Example)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2046.gif]
 
Figure 8: Wind Facility Fall Zone (Side View Example)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2048.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2050.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2052.gif]
 
Figure 12: Projections in Required Yards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2054.gif]
 
Figure 13: Private Road Minimu m Construction Standards For Properties Outside
And Inside An Area Of City Impact
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2056.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2058.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2060.gif]
 
Figure 18: Special Flood Hazard Area Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2062.gif]
 
Source: FEMA region 10, NFIP guidebook 5 (5th ed. 2009).
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd.
Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 797, 4-24-2012; amd. Ord. 835, 12-3-2014)
ARTICLE B. NONCONFORMING PROPERTY, USE, OR STRUCTURE
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Purpose
8-1B-2: Applicability
8-1B-3: Nonconforming Property
8-1B-4: Nonconforming Use
8-1B-5: Nonconforming Structure
8-1B-6: Violations
8-1B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to allow any nonconforming property, use, or
structure that was lawfully existing prior to the effective date of this title
to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their continuation. It
is further the intent of this article that nonconforming uses shall not expand
or extend the nonconforming aspect of the property, use, or structure, unless
approved subject to the regulations of section
8-7-5 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1B-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   These regulations shall apply to any lawfully existing nonconforming
property, use, or structure in Ada County, except: In the event that a
property, use, or structure that was deemed nonconforming under past zoning
regulations now complies with the standards of this title, such property, use,
or structure shall be deemed conforming.
   B.   These regulations shall apply to properties that were not created in
accord with the regulations of this title (an illegal division of property) and
that were of record in the Ada County recorder's office prior to January 1,
1985, the boundaries of which shall not have changed except by governmental
action as specified in section
8-4A-19 of this title.
      1.   A property shall be deemed conforming and shall be eligible for
building permits if it meets the dimensional standards for the base district in
which it is now located.
      2.   A property shall be deemed nonconforming and shall be eligible for
building permits if it meets one of the following standards:
         a.   The property met the dimensional standards for the applicable
base district at the time it was created.
         b.   A dwelling, as herein defined, was constructed or placed on the
property prior to January 1, 1985; provided, in the event that the dwelling is
subsequently damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, explosion, wind, earthquake,
war, riot, calamity or other catastrophic event after January 1, 1985, the
property remains eligible for a building permit. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd.
Ord. 815, 10-2-2013)
8-1B-3: NONCONFORMING PROPERTY:
   A.   The nonconforming property shall not be further diminished in size.
   B.   Any property reduced by governmental action that reduces an existing
conforming parcel below the required property size shall be deemed as a
conforming property for the purpose of development. To be deemed a conforming
property, the owner or applicant shall submit documents to the director proving
the following:
      1.   The property was in compliance with the minimum property size
requirement of the applicable zoning district prior to the decrease in property
size; and
      2.   The decrease in property size was caused by acquisition through
prescription, purchase, or other means by Ada County, a municipality within Ada
County, the Ada County highway district, Idaho transportation department,
utility company or corporation under the jurisdiction of the Idaho public
utilities commission, or other local, state, or federal agency. (Ord. 389, 6-
14-2000; amd. Ord. 768, 1-12-2011)
8-1B-4: NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   The nonconforming use may continue as long as the use remains lawful
and is not expanded or extended, unless approved subject to the regulations of
section
8-7-5 of this title.
   B.   For the purposes of this article, the term "expanded or extended" shall
include, but not be limited to: increased hours; increased services or
programs; increased number of residential dwellings; interior renovations or
structural additions that increase the occupant load of the structure dedicated
to the nonconforming use (see Ada County building code as set forth in title 7,
chapter 2 of this code); any new structures accessory to the nonconforming use;
expansion or replacement of the structure (or portions thereof) dedicated to
the nonconforming use; anything beyond regular maintenance and minor repairs
(as required by the Ada County building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2
of this code); and any action that extends the duration of the nonconforming
use.
   C.   If a nonconforming use has ceased for ten (10) years or has been
replaced with a conforming use, the nonconforming use shall be deemed abandoned
and shall not be reestablished. If nonuse or vacancy continues for a period of
a year or longer, the county may request resolution of the nonconforming use
right according to procedures outlined in Idaho Code section 67-6538(2) as it
may be amended or retitled from time to time.
   D.   A nonconforming use or structure housing a nonconforming use that is
damaged more than fifty percent (50%) of its current assessed taxable value by
fire, flood, explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot, calamity, or other
catastrophic event, shall comply with this title upon reconstruction. If the
damage to the nonconforming use or structure housing the nonconforming use is
fifty percent (50%) or less of the current assessed taxable value, the
nonconforming use may continue, provided that the nonconforming use commences
within ten (10) years of the event. If nonuse or vacancy continues for a period
of a year or longer, the county may request resolution of the nonconforming use
right according to procedures outlined in Idaho Code section 67-6538(2) as it
may be amended or retitled from time to time.
   E.   Uses housed within structures listed on the national register of
historic places shall be exempt from the regulations of this section. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 719, 1-14-2009)
8-1B-5: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE:
   A.   Nonconforming structures may be enlarged or modified, provided that the
additions or modifications to the structure conform to the requirements of this
title.
   B.   A nonconforming structure that is damaged more than seventy five
percent (75%) of its current assessed taxable value by fire, flood, explosion,
wind, earthquake, war, riot, calamity, or other catastrophic event, shall
comply with this title upon restoration or reconstruction. If the damage to the
nonconforming structure is seventy five percent (75%) or less of the current
assessed taxable value, the structure may be restored or reconstructed,
provided that restoration or reconstruction commences within twelve (12) months
of the event.
   C.   Structures listed on the national register of historic places shall be
exempt from the regulations of this section. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-1B-6: VIOLATIONS:
Properties, uses, or structures that were in violation of previous land use
regulations and that remain a violation under this title shall be considered
continuing violations. See also subsection
8-1-4D of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
CHAPTER 2
BASE DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Zoning Base Districts Established
8-2-1: ZONING BASE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, the unincorporated territory of Ada County,
Idaho, is divided into the following zoning base districts whose boundaries are
established on the official zoning maps of the unincorporated territory of Ada
County. The official zoning maps are made a part of this title, as well as such
other map or maps that are duly adopted. Said official zoning maps properly
attested, shall be placed and remain on file in the office of the clerk of the
board of Ada County commissioners.
   Map Symbol
                                                        Map Symbol
A. Rural Base Districts:
  Rural preservation                                       RP
  Rural residential                                        RR
B. Urban Base Districts:                                  
  Residential base districts:
   Rural-urban transition                                 RUT
   Southwest community residential                        RSW
   Estate residential                                     R1
   Low density residential                                R2
   Medium low density residential                         R4
   Medium density residential                             R6
   Medium high density residential                        R8
   High density residential                               R12
   Very high density residential                          R20
   Estate residential - manufactured home                 R1M
   Medium high density residential - manufactured home    R8M
  Commercial base districts:
   Limited office                                         LO
   Neighborhood commercial                                C1
   Community commercial                                   C2
   Regional commercial                                    C3
  Industrial base districts:
   Technological industrial                               TI
   Limited industrial                                     M1
   General industrial                                     M2
   Airport industrial                                     M3
C. Planned Community Base District:
  Planned community                                        PC
 
(Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
ARTICLE A. RURAL BASE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Purpose
8-2A-2: General Requirements
8-2A-3: Allowed Uses
8-2A-4: Dimensional Standards
8-2A-5: Farm Development Right
8-2A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Common Purpose Statements Of The Rural Preservation (RP) District And
The Rural Residential (RR) District:
      1.   Promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the people of Ada
County by encouraging the protection of prime agricultural lands; to ensure the
important environmental features of the state and Ada County are protected and
enhanced; and to protect fish, wildlife, and recreation resources, consistent
with the purposes of the "local land use planning act", Idaho Code section 67-
6501 et seq., as amended;
      2.   Implement the Ada County comprehensive plan goal to protect prime
agricultural land and to maximize opportunities for agricultural activities and
an agricultural lifestyle in areas designated as rural areas on the
comprehensive plan future land use map;
      3.   Allow the development of agricultural industries and agriculture
service establishments when such uses do not take prime agricultural land out
of crop production;
      4.   Protect agricultural and rangeland uses and wildlife management
areas from undue adverse impacts from adjacent development;
      5.   Permit the development of schools, churches, and other public and
quasi-public uses in rural areas consistent with the applicable comprehensive
plan; and
      6.   Direct urban density development to occur within urban base
districts and the planned community base district.
   B.   Additional Purpose Statements:
      1.   Rural Preservation District: Permit the continued use of
agricultural lands, rangelands, and wildlife management areas within the Boise
front foothills (in areas designated as the foothills planning area in the
Boise City comprehensive plan and the Ada County comprehensive plan). Limit
development of hazardous areas including, but not limited to, fault lines,
landslides, subsidence, shallow soils, steep slopes, unstable slopes, flooding,
and seeps. Allow a limited number of uses with excessive space requirements or
buffering needs on nonprime agricultural lands.
      2.   Rural Residential District: Permit low density residential uses that
would provide a rural lifestyle, and that do not require excessive expansion of
public services. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 621, 5-24-2006; amd. Ord. 699,
6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-2A-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All development shall be in accord with the regulations in chapter 4,
article A of this title and, where applicable, according to a master site plan
as approved subject to the standards of chapter 4, article E of this title.
   B.   Access shall comply with the regulations of section
8-4A-3 of this title or private road requirements of chapter 4, article D of
this title.
   C.   A farm development right may be approved in accord with regulations
outlined in section
8-2A-5 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-2A-3: ALLOWED USES:
Unless otherwise specified in the specific use standards of chapter 5 of this
title, table
8-2A-1 of this section lists principal permitted (P), accessory (A),
conditional (C), or prohibited (-) uses within each rural base district,
including rural residences.
   A.   Principal permitted uses shall be reviewed in accord with the specific
use standards in chapter 5 of this title and the master site plan standards of
chapter 4, article E of this title, unless specifically exempt under subsection
8-4E-2B of this title.
   B.   Accessory uses shall be reviewed in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the use regulations of chapter 5, article A of this title.
   C.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the use regulations of chapter 5, article B of this title.
TABLE 8-2A-1: ALLOWED USE WITHIN THE RURAL BASE DISTRICTS
Allowed Use RP RR Rural Residence
Allowed Use                                   RP      RR      Rural Residence
Accessory structure                           A       A       A
Adult respite care center                     -       C       C
Agricultural service establishment            C       C       -
Agricultural structure                        A       A       -
Agricultural use                              P       P       P
Aircraft landing field (private ownership)    C       C       -
Airport (public ownership)                    C       C       -
Amusement or recreation facility, outdoor     -       C       -
Animal boarding with outside runs             C       C       -
Animal clinic, animal hospital, or veterinary C       C       -
office
Auction establishment, outdoor                C       C       -
Automotive, hobby                             A       A       A
Bed and breakfast establishment               C       C       -
Campground                                    C       C       -
Cemetery, public or private                   C       C       -
Centralized power facility                    C2      C4      -
Church                                        C       C       -
Club or lodge or social hall                  C       C       -
Composting facility, commercial               C       C       -
Contractor's yard or shop                     C       C       -
Dangerous or protected animals                C       C       C
Daycare center                                -       -       -
Daycare, family daycare home                  A       A       A
Daycare, group daycare facility               A       A       A
Distributed power facility, solar rooftop,    A       A       A
solar ground, solar integrated, or solar pole
Distributed power facility, wind freestanding C       C       -
tower
Distributed power facility, wind rooftop      A or C3 A or C3 A or C3
Drug and alcohol treatment facility           C1      C1      -
Dwelling, additional farm                     A       A       A
Dwelling, caretaker for an approved use       A       A       -
Dwelling, secondary attached or detached      A       A       A
Dwelling, single-family detached              P       P       P
Electric distribution line                    P       P       P
Electric subtransmission line                 P       P       P
Electric transmission line and substations    C       C       C
Explosive manufacturing or storage            C       -       -
Fence, barbed wire, electric wire, or other   A       A       A
Flammable substance storage                   C       C       -
Fuel cell                                     A       A       A
Golf course and country club                  C       C       -
Grain elevator                                P       P       -
Home occupation                               A       A       A
Kennel, commercial                            C       C       -
Kennel, hobby                                 A       A       A
Livestock confinement facility, 300 AU        P       P       A
Livestock confinement facility, 301 to 999 AU P       P       -
Livestock confinement facility, 1,000 AU or   C       C       -
more
Manufactured home                             P       P       P
Meatpacking facility                          C       C       -
Mortuary                                      A       A       -
Nursery, wholesale (only)                     P       P       -
Office, relating to an approved use           A       A       -
Office, temporary construction                A       A       A
Outdoor storage area for an approved use      A       A       A
Pit, mine, or quarry                          A or C  A or C  A
Portable classroom                            A       A       -
Processing plants for agricultural and dairy  C       C       -
products
Produce stand, agricultural                   A       A       -
Produce stand, roadside                       A       A       -
Public or quasi-public use                    C       C       -
Racetrack, vehicle or animal                  C       C       -
Railroad switching yard                       P       -       -
Residential care facility                     -       C       -
Sanitary landfill, restricted                 C       C       -
School, public or private                     C       C       -
Seasonal farmworker housing                   C       C       -
Septage treatment and disposal facility,      C       -       -
private
Shooting range (outdoor or indoor)            C       C       -
Signs, nonaccessory, off premises             C       C       -
Slaughterhouse                                C       C       -
Small wireless facility                       A       A       A
Soil or water remediation                     C       -       -
Soil or Water remediation, in situ            P       P       P
Stable or riding arena, commercial            C       C       -
Swimming pool, private                        A       A       A
Temporary living quarters                     A       A       A
Tower or antenna structure, commercial        C       C       C
Tower or antenna structure, private           A       A       A
Truck stop                                    C       C       -
Winery                                        C       C       -
 
Notes:
   1.    Only permitted in an area of city impact. See section
8-5-3-36 of this title.
   2.   Allowed only outside areas of city impacts.
   3.    2 or more rooftop wind facilities require conditional use. See
subsection
8-5-3-83C3b(3) of this title.
    4.   Allowed on irrigation district’s and/or canal company’s existing
seasonal irrigation canals or ditches.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 477, 1-7-2003; amd.
Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 571, 1-12-2005; amd. Ord. 582, 5-25-2005; amd.
Ord. 620, 5-24-2006; amd. Ord. 674, 9-12-2007; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd.
Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 743, 2-10-2010; amd.
Ord. 755, 7-21-2010; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012; amd.
Ord. 852, 3-2-2016; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019; amd. Ord. 911, 3-11-2020)
8-2A-4: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Table
8-2A-2 of this section shall be used for development in the respective rural
base district.
   A.   Institutional uses (including church, group daycare facility, portable
classroom, public or quasi-public use, and school, public or private), which
are proposed within rural base districts, shall be permitted an increase of the
maximum coverage from five percent (5%) to twenty percent (20%).
   B.   Stable or riding arena, commercial, which is proposed within rural base
districts, shall be permitted an increase of the maximum coverage from five
percent (5%) to twenty percent (20%).
TABLE 8-2A-2: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR RURAL BASE DISTRICT PROPERTY
Dimensional Standards RP R  Rural Residence
Dimensional Standards                          RP      R   RRural Residence
Property size (in acres)                       40 min. 10 min. 1 min.
                                                               2.5 max.
Minimum street frontage (in feet)              100     100     100
Minimum setback (in feet) from:                               
     Arterial, collector, or section line 50      50      50
street
     Other roadway                        30      30      30
     Property line not fronting a roadway 25      25      251
Maximum coverage (in percent)                  5       5       20
Maximum height (in feet)                       35      35      35
Minimum property width and depth (in feet)     100     100     100
 
Note:
   1.    A side property line setback of 10 feet shall be allowed adjacent to
other rural residences.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd.
Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-2A-5: FARM DEVELOPMENT RIGHT:
   A.   Purpose: This regulation allows owners of a qualifying property in the
rural preservation district (RP) to create one residential parcel for
conveyance. If the qualifying property is decreased below the minimum property
size as a result of granting the farm development right, the remainder of the
qualifying property shall still be considered a conforming property.
   B.   Applicability: This regulation shall apply to any property that meets
all of the following criteria:
      1.   The property is within the rural preservation district;
      2.   The property is a minimum of forty (40) acres of contiguous land;
and
      3.   The property was of record in the Ada County recorder's office as of
January 1, 1985 (hereinafter referred to as the "property of record"), the
boundaries of which shall not have changed except as the result of a
governmental action. (See section
8-4A-19 of this title.)
         a.   The property of record shall be entitled to a maximum of one farm
development right.
         b.   For the purposes of this title, parcels approved prior to the
effective date of this title subject to the one acre lot regulations or one
acre parcel regulations shall be considered farm development rights.
   C.   Process:
      1.   Application The applicant shall submit an application and fees on
forms provided by the development services department as set forth in chapter
7, article A of this title.
      2.   Tentative Approval; Requirements: Upon tentative approval of the
application by the director subject to the regulations of section
8-7A-6 of this title, the applicant or owner shall have one year to complete
all of the following tasks:
         a.   Cause the property to be surveyed and before recording submit to
the director draft copies of the record of survey and resultant parcel
descriptions for review;
         b.   Execute and record the record of survey and the necessary deeds
with the Ada County Recorder to accomplish the farm development right parcel as
approved;
         c.   Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County assessor; and
         d.   Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds,
and the new tax parcel numbers to the director.
      3.   Issuance Of Approval Letter: The director shall determine that all
conditions of approval have been met and that the farm development right parcel
is in conformance with this section before final approval letter is issued.
   D.   Standards:
      1.   The farm development right parcel shall meet the dimensional
standards for a rural residence as established by section
8-2A-4, table
8-2A-2 of this article.
      2.   Access and frontage shall be as required by section
8-4A-3 of this title.
      3.   If the qualifying property has more than one permanent dwelling, the
farm development right parcel shall contain one of the extra dwellings. This
standard shall not apply to temporary living quarters.
      4.   The proposed farm development right division shall maximize to the
greatest extent possible the preservation of prime agricultural soils.
      5.   The farm development right parcel shall be located on the portion of
the property that causes the least disruption of agriculture on the remainder
of the qualifying property while still meeting the standards of this section.
   E.   Required Findings: The director shall make the following findings in
order to approve, or approve with conditions, the farm development right:
      1.   The proposed farm development right meets the applicability
requirements of subsection B of this section; and
      2.   The proposed farm development right complies with standards of
subsection D of this section. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003;
amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENTIAL BASE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-2B-1: Purpose
8-2B-2: General Requirements
8-2B-3: Allowed Uses
8-2B-4: Dimensional Standards
8-2B-5: Zero Lot Line Setback Development
8-2B-6: RUT And RSW Cluster Subdivision
8-2B-7: RUT And RSW Subdivision
8-2B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to implement the applicable comprehensive plans
within areas of city impact. These base districts are intended to provide
appropriate density for residential development based on the availability of
urban public facilities, the surrounding land uses, and the applicable
comprehensive plan designation. The purpose statements of the individual
residential base districts are as follows:
   A.   Rural-Urban Transition (RUT) District:
      1.   Provide standards and regulations for the development of property
within areas of city impact, consistent with the goals and policies of the
applicable city comprehensive plan;
      2.   Allow agriculture and rural residential uses to continue within
areas of city impact until urban public facilities are extended;
      3.   Provide standards and regulations that shall permit redevelopment of
property to higher densities when urban public facilities are extended; and
      4.   Limit new agricultural uses within the areas of city impact to those
that shall not significantly impact nearby urbanizing areas with noise, odor,
dust, or other nuisances normally related to more intensive farm uses, such as
livestock confinement facilities with three hundred one (301) or more animal
units. This article, however, shall in no way preclude the continued use of
properties within these areas for agriculture.
   B.   Southwest Community Residential (RSW) District:
      1.   Implement the Boise City comprehensive plan for the southwest
planning area. After the effective date of this title, rezones to designate
additional land "southwest community residential" shall not be approved;
      2.   Allow agriculture and rural residential uses to continue within
areas of city impact until urban public facilities are extended;
   C.   Estate Residential (R1) District, Low Density Residential (R2)
District, Medium Low Density Residential (R4) District, Medium Density
Residential (R6) District, And Medium High Density Residential (R8) District:
      1.   Provide regulations and standards for development where urban public
facilities are programmed. The maximum allowed density shall be as follows:
         a.   R1 - One dwelling unit per acre;
         b.   R2 - Two (2) dwelling units per acre;
         c.   R4 - Four (4) dwelling units per acre;
         d.   R6 - Six (6) dwelling units per acre;
         e.   R8 - Eight (8) dwelling units per acre;
      2.   Provide options for applicants so they may develop areas with the
most appropriate density as it relates to the surrounding land uses and the
applicable comprehensive plan designation.
   D.   High Density Residential (R12) District And Very High Density
Residential (R20) District:
      1.   Provide regulations and standards for development where urban public
facilities are programmed;
      2.   The maximum allowed density shall be as follows:
         a.   R12 - Twelve (12) dwelling units per acre;
         b.   R20 - Twenty (20) dwelling units per acre;
      3.   Accommodate multiple-family dwellings including, but not limited to,
townhouses and/or apartments, consistent with the applicable comprehensive plan
designation; and
      4.   Accommodate zero lot line developments of single-family detached,
single-family attached, and multi-family dwellings consistent with the
applicable comprehensive plan designation.
   E.   Manufactured Home Districts (R1M And R8M):
      1.   To accommodate existing M base districts and recognize the existing
development rights of residential properties within a manufactured home base
district; and
      2.   Establish standards and regulations governing the location of
manufactured homes in existing M base districts for the purpose of protecting
property rights and enhancing property values while making accommodations for
other necessary types of development, consistent with the purposes of the
"local land use planning act", Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., as amended.
The maximum allowed density shall be as follows:
         a.   R1M - One dwelling unit per acre.
         b.   R8M - Eight (8) dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-2B-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All development shall be in accord with the regulations in chapter 4,
article A of this title and, where applicable, according to a master site plan
as approved subject to the standards of chapter 4, article E of this title.
   B.   Access shall comply with the regulations of section
8-4A-3 of this title or private road requirements of chapter 4, article D of
this title.
   C.   A planned unit development shall be reviewed in accord with regulations
outlined in chapter 3, article D of this title.
   D.   Manufactured home parks shall be processed in accord with the
regulations outlined in section
8-5-3-66 of this title.
   E.   Manufactured homes that meet all the criteria listed in the definition
of single-family dwelling as found in section
8-1A-1 of this title shall be considered single-family dwellings. This shall
not be construed, however, as abrogating any recorded restrictive covenant.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-2B-3: ALLOWED USES:
Unless otherwise specified in the specific use standards of chapter 5 of this
title,
table 8-2B-1 of this section lists principal permitted (P), accessory (A),
conditional (C), or prohibited (–) uses within each residential base district.
   A.   Principal permitted uses shall be reviewed in accord with the specific
use standards in chapter 5 of this title and the master site plan standards of
chapter 4, article E of this title, unless specifically exempt under subsection
8-4E-2B of this title.
   B.   Accessory uses shall be reviewed in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the accessory use regulations of chapter 5, article A of this title.
   C.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the conditional use regulations of chapter 5, article B of this title.
TABLE 8-2B-1: ALLOWED USE BY RESIDENTIAL BASE DISTRICT2
Allowed Use RUT RUT Existing RSW RSW Existing R1/ R1M R2 R4 R6 R8/ R8M R12 R20
                Cluster Lot      Cluster Lot
                       RUT             RSW
Allowed Use     RUT    Existing RSW    Existing R1/  R2 R4 R6 R8/ R8M R12 R20
                       Cluster         Cluster  R1M
                       Lot             Lot
Accessory       A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
structure
Adult respite   C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
care center
Agricultural    A      -        A      -        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
structure
Agricultural    P      P        P      P        P    P  P  P  P       P   P
use
Amusement or
recreation      -      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   C
facility,
indoor (only)
Amusement or
recreation      C      -        C      -        C    C  C  C  C       -   -
facility,
outdoor (only)
Animal boarding
with outside    C      -        C      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
runs
Animal clinic,
animal
hospital, or    C      -        C      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
veterinary
office
Automotive,     A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
hobby
Bed and
breakfast       C      C        C      C        C/-  -  -  -  -       -   -
establishment
Boarding house  -      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       C   C
Cemetery        C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
Children's
treatment       C      C        C      C        C/-  C  C  C  C/-     -   -
facility
Church          C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
Club or lodge   C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
or social hall
Contractor's    C      -        C      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
yard or shop
Dangerous or
protected       C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
animals
Daycare center  C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
Daycare, family A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
daycare home
Daycare, group
daycare         A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
facility
Distributed
power facility,
solar rooftop,
solar ground,   A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
solar
integrated, or
solar pole
Distributed
power facility,
wind            C      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
freestanding
tower
Distributed     A or            A or            A or
power facility, C1     A or C1  C1     A or C1  C1   -  -  -  -       -   -
wind rooftop
Drug and
alcohol         C      C        C      C        C/-  C  C  C  C/-     -   -
treatment
facility
Duplex or
single-family   -      -        -      -        -    -  P  P  P/P     P   P
attached
dwelling
Dwelling,
secondary       A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  -       -   -
attached
Dwelling,
secondary       A      A        A      A        A    A  -  -  -       -   -
detached
Dwelling,
single-family   P      P        P      P        P/P  P  P  P  P/P     P   P
detached
Dwelling,       -      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       P   P
townhouse
Electric
distribution    P      P        P      P        P    P  P  P  P       P   P
line
Electric
subtransmission P      P        P      P        P    P  P  P  P       P   P
line
Electric
transmission    C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
line and
substations
Fence, barbed
wire or         A      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
electric wire
Fence, barbed
wire or
electric wire
accessory to a  A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
livestock
confinement
facility
Fence, other    A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
Foster home,    C      C        C      C        C/-  C  C  C  C/-     C   C
group
Fuel cell       A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
Golf course and C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
country club
Home occupation A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
Kennel,         C      -        C      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
commercial
Kennel, hobby   A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
Livestock
confinement     A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       -   -
facility, 300
AU
Manufactured    -      -        -      -        -/P  -  -  -  -/P     -   -
home
Manufactured
home in a
manufactured    -      -        P      -        P/P  P  P  P  P/P     P   P
home
subdivision or
park
Manufactured    -      -        C      -        C/P  C  C  C  C/P     C   C
home park
Manufactured
home            -      -        -      -        -/P  -  -  -  -/P     -   -
subdivision
Mortuary        A      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
Multi-family    -      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       P   P
development
Nursery, retail C      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
Nursery,
wholesale       P      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
(only)
Nursing
facility,       -      -        -      -        -    C  C  C  C       C   C
skilled
Office,
relating to an  A      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
approved use
Office,
temporary       A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
construction
Outdoor storage
area, for an    A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
approved use
Pit, mine, or   A or C A        A or C A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
quarry
Portable        A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
classroom
Produce stand,  A      -        A      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
agricultural
Produce stand,  A      -        A      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
roadside
Public or
quasi-public    C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
use
Residential     C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
care facility
School, public  C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
or private
Signs,
nonaccessory,   -      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
off premises
Small wireless  A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
facility
Soil or water
remediation, in P      P        P      P        P    P  P  P  P       P   P
situ
Stable or
riding arena,   C      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
commercial
Storage
facility, self- C      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
service -
outdoor only
Swimming pool,  A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
private
Temporary
living quarters A      A        A      A        A    A  -  -  -       -   -
(TLQ)
Tower or
antenna         C      C        C      C        C    C  C  C  C       C   C
structure,
commercial
Tower or
antenna         A      A        A      A        A    A  A  A  A       A   A
structure,
private
Winery          C      -        -      -        -    -  -  -  -       -   -
 
Notes:
   1.   2 or more rooftop wind facilities require conditional use. See
subsection
8-5-3-83C3b(3) of this title.
   2.   Where 2 designations are noted (e.g., C/P), the first designation
applies to the first base district noted in the column heading. Likewise, the
second designation applies to the second base district noted in the column
heading.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 458, 7-24-2002; amd.
Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 518, 10-8-2003; amd. Ord. 591, 7-27-2005; amd.
Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd.
Ord. 743, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 755, 7-21-2010; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd.
Ord. 801, 9-12-2012; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012; amd. Ord. 822, 5-7-2014; amd.
Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-2B-4:DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Table 8-2B-2 of this section shall be used for development in the respective
residential base districts.
   A.   Institutional uses (including children's treatment facility, church,
daycare center, group daycare facility, adult respite care center, drug and
alcohol treatment facility, portable classroom, public or quasi-public use,
residential care facility, and school) which are proposed within residential
base districts, shall be permitted an increase of the maximum coverage from
five percent (5%) to twenty percent (20%).
   B.   Stable or riding arena, commercial, which is proposed within
residential base districts, shall be permitted an increase of the maximum
coverage from five percent (5%) to twenty percent (20%).
TABLE 8-2B-2: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BY RESIDENTIAL BASE DISTRICT
Dimensional RUT RUT Existing RSW RSW Existing R1/ R1M R2 R4 R6 R8/ R8M R12 R20
Standard        Cluster Lot      Cluster Lot
                  RUT             RSW
Dimensional RUT   Existing RSW    Existing R1/  R2     R4    R6    R8/   R12   R20
Standard          Cluster         Cluster  R1M                     R8M
                  Lot             Lot
Minimum
property                                                              
size1:
  Single-
 family    5.0   n/a      2.5    n/a      1.0  16,000 8,000 6,000 5,000 3,500 2,000
  detached  acres          acres6          acre
  dwelling
  Single-
 family    n/a   n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a  n/a    8,000 6,000 5,000 3,500 2,000
  attached
  dwelling
 Duplex    n/a   n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a  n/a    8,000 9,000 7,500 5,000 4,000
Roadway
frontage    250   n/a      250    n/a      100  85     60    60    50    457   457
(in feet)2
Setback
(feet)                                                                
from:
  Any
  property
  line on
 an        30    30       30     30       30   30     25    25    25    25    20
  arterial
  or
  collector
  street
  Front
  property
  line on a
 local     25    25       25     25       25   25     20    20    20    20    20
  street or
  private
  road
  Front
  property
  line
  where
  alley
  provides
  access to
  garage or
 where the 25    20       25     20       20   20     15    15    15    15    15
  garage is
  side
  loaded or
  located
  behind
  the front
  plane of
  the house
  Interior
 side      25    10       25     10       10   5/     5     5     5     5     5
  property                                      story4
  line3
  Side
  property
  line on
 local     20    20       20     20       20   20     20    20    20    20    20
  street or
  private
  road5
  Rear
 property  25    25       25     25       20   20     15    15    15    15    15
  line
  Side or
  rear
  property
  line on
 an alley  0     0        0      0        0    0      0     0     0     0     0
  (see
  section
  8-6A-5 of
  this
  title)
Maximum
coverage    20    20       10     20       20   n/a    n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a
(in
percent)
Maximum
height in   35    35       35     35       35   35     35    35    35    40    40
feet
 
Notes:
   1.    In square feet, unless otherwise noted. (See subsection
8-6A-3B of this title regarding lot size for corner lots.)
   2.    See subsection
8-6A-3E or F of this title for property frontage on a cul-de-sac turnaround or
street knuckle.
   3.    See section
8-2B-5 of this article regarding zero lot line developments.
   4.    Minimum interior side setback not to exceed 10 feet.
   5.    If vehicle access is restricted on such street, a setback of 15 feet
is permitted.
   6.   In high water table areas, a 5 acre minimum lot size is required.
   7.   Developments utilizing continuous service drives may be exempt from the
roadway frontage requirements.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 458, 7-24-2002; amd.
Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 591, 7-27-2005; amd. Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd.
Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 691, 3-26-2008; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd.
Ord. 763, 10-13-2010; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010; amd. Ord. 934, 12-21-2021)
8-2B-5: ZERO LOT LINE SETBACK DEVELOPMENT:
Zero lot line development may be allowed in the R6, R8, R12, and R20 districts.
For developments containing multiple zero lot line setbacks, an applicant may
apply for reduced setback and street frontage requirements concurrent with a
preliminary plat application subject to the following standards:
   A.   The preliminary and final plats shall designate a building envelope for
each property with a zero lot line or abutting a zero lot line setback.
   B.   In no case shall a zero lot line setback be allowed adjacent to a
property line that is not part of the subdivision.
   C.   Within the R12 and R20 districts, no lot shall have more than two (2)
zero lot line setbacks.
   D.   Within the R6 and R8 districts, no lot shall have more than one zero
lot line setback.
   E.   For zero lot line developments within the R6, R8, R12, and R20
districts, the applicant may request reduced street frontage, up to twenty
percent (20%) below the district standard. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 458,
7-24-2002)
8-2B-6: RUT AND RSW CLUSTER SUBDIVISION:
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 541, 6-7-2004; rep. by Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-2B-7: RUT AND RSW SUBDIVISION:
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; rep. by Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
ARTICLE C. COMMERCIAL BASE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-2C-1: Purpose
8-2C-2: General Requirements
8-2C-3: Allowed Uses
8-2C-4: Dimensional Standards
8-2C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide commercial base districts along with
separate and distinct uses to enable comprehensive plan implementation. These
base districts are primarily intended to be established inside areas of city
impact based on the availability of urban services, the surrounding land uses,
and the applicable comprehensive plan designation for the area. Commercial base
districts may also be established outside of areas of city impact on a limited
basis. The purpose statement of each industrial base district is as follows:
   A.   Limited Office (LO) District: The purpose of the LO district is to
provide administrative, professional, and business office uses near residential
base districts.
   B.   Neighborhood Commercial (C1) District: The purpose of the C1 district
is to establish commercial areas near residential areas that provide for the
sale of limited merchandise and services required by the population primarily
living within the immediate area.
   C.   Community Commercial (C2) District: The purpose of the C2 district is
to establish areas for community shopping and clustered commercial activities
along arterial streets that provide for the sale of a full range of merchandise
and services required of persons living within several neighborhood service
areas, as well as a rural trade area.
   D.   Regional Commercial (C3) District: The purpose of the C3 district is to
establish areas for large scale commercial structures located in close
proximity to interstate or principal arterial roadways that serve the Treasure
Valley region. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 959, 10-11-2023)
8-2C-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All development shall be in accord with the regulations in chapter 4,
article A of this title and according to a master site plan as approved subject
to the standards of chapter 4, article E of this title.
   B.   Access shall comply with the regulations of section
8-4A-3 of this title.
   C.   A planned unit development shall be reviewed in accord with regulations
outlined in chapter 3, article D of this title.
   D.   For commercial base districts established outside of areas of city
impact, select principally permitted uses will be processed as a conditional
use per Table
8-2C-1: Allowed Use By Industrial Base District. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd.
Ord. 959, 10-11-2023)
8-2C-3: ALLOWED USES:
Unless otherwise specified in the specific use standards of chapter 5 of this
title,
table 8-2C-1 of this section lists the principal permitted (P), accessory (A),
conditional (C), or prohibited (–) uses within each commercial base district.
   A.   Principal permitted uses shall be reviewed in accord with the specific
use standards in chapter 5 of this title and the master site plan standards of
chapter 4, article E of this title, unless specifically exempt under subsection
8-4E-2B of this title.
   B.   Accessory uses shall be reviewed in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the accessory use regulations of chapter 5, article A of this title.
   C.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the conditional use regulations of chapter 5, article B of this title.
TABLE 8-2C-1: ALLOWED USE BY COMMERCIAL BASE DISTRICT
Allowed Use LO C1 C2 C3
Allowed Use                                                    LO C1 C2 C3
Adult entertainment establishment                              -  -  C  C
Adult respite care center                                      C  C  C  C
Agricultural structure                                         A  A  A  A
Agricultural use                                               P  P  P  P
Amusement or recreation facility, indoor                       -  C  P1 P1
Amusement or recreation facility, outdoor                      -  C  C  C
Animal boarding with outside runs                              -  C  P1 P1
Animal clinic, animal hospital, or veterinary office           -  P1 P1 P1
Auction establishment, outdoor                                 -  C  C  C
Automobile, major repair                                       -  -  P1 -
Automobile or recreational vehicle sales or service            -  C  P1 P1
Bank                                                           P1 P1 P1 P1
Bar, brewpub, or nightclub                                     -  C  P1 P1
Bed and breakfast establishment                                -  C  C  -
Boarding house                                                 -  C  C  -
Campground                                                     -  C  C  P1
Car wash                                                       -  C  C  C
Cemetery                                                       C  C  C  -
Church                                                         C  C  C  C
Clinic, medical (excluding animal or veterinary)               P1 P1 P1 P1
Club or lodge or social hall                                   C  C  C  -
Contractor's yard or shop                                      -  -  P1 P1
Crematory                                                      -  -  C  -
Dangerous or protected animals                                 C  C  C  C
Daycare center                                                 C  C  C  C
Distributed power facility, solar rooftop, solar ground, solar A  A  A  A
integrated, or solar pole
Drive-up window service                                        C  C  P1 P1
Drug and alcohol treatment facility                            C  -  -  -
Dwelling, caretaker for an approved use                        A  A  A  A
Electric distribution line                                     P  P  P  P
Electric subtransmission line                                  P  P  P  P
Electric transmission line and substations                     C  C  C  C
Farm, garden, lumber, or building supply store                 -  -  P1 P1
Fence, barbed wire or electric wire                            C  C  C  C
Fence, barbed wire or electric wire accessory to a livestock   A  A  A  A
confinement facility
Fence, other                                                   A  A  A  A
Fuel cell                                                      A  A  A  A
Gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales                    -  C  P1 P1
Heavy equipment sales or service                               -  -  P1 P1
Hospital                                                       C  -  C  C
Hotel or motel                                                 C  C  P1 P1
Kennel, commercial                                             -  C  C  C
Laundromat                                                     -  P1 P1 P1
Manufactured home storage                                      -  P1 P1 -
Mortuary                                                       P1 P1 P1 P1
Nursery, retail (only)                                         -  P1 P1 P1
Off street parking facility                                    -  P1 P1 P1
Office building                                                P1 P1 P1 P1
Office, relating to an approved use                            A  A  A  A
Office, temporary construction                                 A  A  A  A
Outdoor storage area, for an approved use                      A  A  A  A
Package and letter delivery service                            -  -  P1 P1
Personal, business, or professional service                    P1 P1 P1 P1
Portable classroom                                             A  -  A  -
Public or quasi-public use                                     C  C  C  C
Radio and television broadcasting station                      C  C  P1 P1
Recreational vehicle park                                      -  C  C  C
Recycling center                                               -  -  P1 -
Research and development facility                              C  -  C  C
Residential care facility                                      C  C  -  -
Restaurant or eating place                                     C  P1 P1 P1
Retail sales relating to an approved use                       A  A  A  A
Retail store                                                   C  P1 P1 P1
School, public or private                                      C  -  -  -
School, vocational or trade                                    C  -  P1 -
Shooting range, indoor (only)                                  C  C  P1 P1
Sign, nonaccessory, off premises                               P1 P1 P1 P1
Small wireless facility                                        A  A  A  A
Soil or water remediation, in situ                             P  P  P  P
Storage facility, self-service                                 C  C  P1 -
Studio                                                         C  P1 P1 -
Swimming pool, private                                         A  A  A  A
Tower or antenna structure, commercial                         C  C  C  C
Tower or antenna structure, private                            A  A  A  A
Transit facility                                               -  P1 P1 P1
Truck stop                                                     -  -  C  P1
1.   Principally permitted uses located outside of areas of city impact
will be processed as a conditional use.
 
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd.
Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 743, 2-10-2010; amd.
Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 801, 9-12-2012; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019; amd.
Ord. 959, 10-11-2023)
8-2C-4:DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Tables
8-2C-2 and
8-2C-3 of this section shall be used for development in the respective
commercial base districts. Structure greater than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet is prohibited in LO and C1 districts.
TABLE 8-2C-2: MINIMUM SETBACKS BY COMMERCIAL BASE DISTRICT
 
Minimum  LO                   C1                   C2                   C3
Setbacks          Abutting             Abutting             Abutting             Abutting
(In      Standard Residential Standard Residential Standard Residential Standard Residential
Feet)
Front
yard     20       varies1     20       20          20       20          35       50
setback
Side
street   20       varies1     20       20          20       20          35       50
setback
Interior
side     10       10          0        10          0        20          35       50
yard
setback
Rear
yard     10       20          0        20          0        20          35       50
setback
 
Note:
   1.   The front and side street setback shall be as set forth in the abutting
residential district with the most restrictive standards.
TABLE 8-2C-3: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BY COMMERCIAL BASE DISTRICT
 
Dimensional      LO           C1           C2                C3
Standards
Property size    6,000 square 6,000 square 6,000 square feet 100,000 square
                 feet         feet                           feet
Maximum coverage 50           50           n/a               50
(percent)
Maximum
structure height 35           35           50                50
(in feet)
Minimum street
frontage (in     30           30           30                600
feet)1,2
Minimum property 100          100          100               200
depth (in feet)
 
Notes:
   1.    This requirement may be modified if requested as part of an approved
final plat.
   2.    Developments utilizing continuous service drives may be exempt from
the roadway frontage requirements.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 763, 10-13-2010)
ARTICLE D. INDUSTRIAL BASE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-2D-1: Purpose
8-2D-2: General Requirements
8-2D-3: Allowed Uses
8-2D-4: Dimensional Standards
8-2D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide industrial base districts along with
separate and distinct uses to enable comprehensive plan implementation. These
base districts are primarily intended to be established inside areas of city
impact based on the availability of urban services, the surrounding land uses,
and the applicable comprehensive plan designation for the area. Industrial base
districts may also be established outside of areas of city impact on a limited
basis. The purpose statement of each industrial base district is as follows:
   A.   Technological-Industrial (TI): The purpose of the technological-
industrial district is to provide an environment exclusively for, and conducive
to, the development of technological industrial parks that support
administrative facilities, research institutions and specialized manufacturing
organizations, all of a nonnuisance type. Professional offices, financial
institutions, and other similar uses may be appropriate when they provide
services to the technological industrial park employees.
   B.   Limited Industrial (M1): The purpose of the limited industrial district
is to encourage light industrial development by providing and protecting an
environment exclusively for such development, subject to standards that protect
the nearby residential, commercial, agricultural, and public uses of property
from hazards, noise, and other disturbances. Professional offices, financial
institutions, and other similar uses may be appropriate when they provide
services to the neighboring limited industrial businesses and/or employees.
   C.   General Industrial (M2): The purpose of the general industrial district
is to encourage heavy industrial development by providing and protecting an
environment for such development, subject to standards that protect public
health, safety and welfare.
   D.   Airport Industrial (M3): The purpose of the airport industrial district
is to provide property for industrial uses that are compatible with the safe
operation of the Boise air terminal (Gowen field). The airport industrial
district is intended for nonnoise sensitive manufacturing, industrial, and
commercial uses. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 954, 6-14-2023)
8-2D-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All development shall be in accord with the regulations in chapter 4,
article A of this title, and according to a master site plan as approved
subject to the standards of chapter 4, article E of this title.
   B.   Access shall comply with the regulations of section
8-4A-3 of this title or private road requirements of chapter 4, article D of
this title.
   C.   Any proposed use within the airport overlay district shall comply with
the regulations of chapter 3, article A of this title.
   D.   A planned unit development shall be reviewed in accord with regulations
outlined in chapter 3, article D of this title.
   E.   For industrial base districts established outside of areas of city
impact, select principally permitted uses will be processed as a conditional
use per
Table 8-2D-1: Allowed Use By Industrial Base District. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 954, 6-14-2023)
8-2D-3: ALLOWED USES:
Unless otherwise specified in the specific use standards of chapter 5 of this
title,
table 8-2D-1 of this section lists the principal permitted (P), accessory (A),
conditional (C), or prohibited (–) uses within each industrial base district.
   A.   Principal permitted uses shall be reviewed in accord with the specific
use standards in chapter 5 of this title and the master site plan standards of
chapter 4, article E of this title, unless specifically exempt under subsection
8-4E-2B of this title.
   B.   Accessory uses shall be reviewed in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the accessory use regulations of chapter 5, article A of this title.
   C.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accord with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title, the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title,
and the conditional use regulations of chapter 5, article B of this title.
TABLE 8-2D-1: ALLOWED USE BY INDUSTRIAL BASE DISTRICT
Allowed Use TI M1 M2 M3
Allowed Use                                               TI M1 M2     M3
Agricultural structure                                    A  A  A      A
Agricultural use                                          P  P  P      P
Aircraft landing field (private ownership)                -  C  C      -
Airport (public ownership)                                -  C  C      -
Amusement or recreation facility, indoor (only)           -  C  -      -
Animal boarding with outside runs                         -  P  -      C
Animal clinic, animal hospital, or veterinary office      -  P1 -      P1
Asphalt or concrete ready mix plant                       -  -  P1     C
Auction establishment, outdoor                            -  C  C      -
Automobile, major repair                                  -  P1 P1     P1
Automobile or recreational vehicle sales or service       -  P1 P1     P1
Bank                                                      C  -  -      -
Brewery or distillery                                     -  -  P1     P1
Cemetery                                                  C  C  C      C
Clinic, medical (excluding animal or veterinary)          C  -  -      -
Club or lodge or social hall                              -  C  -      -
Composting facility, commercial                           -  -  P1     P1
Contractor's yard or shop                                 -  P1 P1     P1
Dangerous or protected animals                            C  C  C      C
Daycare center                                            C  -  -      -
Distributed power facility, solar rooftop, solar ground,  A  A  A      -
solar integrated or solar pole
Dwelling, caretaker for an approved use                   A  A  A      A
Electric distribution line                                P  P  P      P
Electric subtransmission line                             P  P  P      P
Electric transmission line and substations                C  C  C      C
Explosive manufacturing or storage                        -  -  C      -
Farm, garden, lumber, or building supply store            -  P1 P1     -
Fence, barbed wire or electric wire                       C  C  C      C
Fence, barbed wire or electric wire accessory to a        A  A  A      A
livestock confinement facility
Fence, other                                              A  A  A      A
Flammable substance storage                               A  C  C      -
Foundry                                                   -  C  P1     C
Freight or truck terminal                                 -  -  P1     P1
Fuel cell                                                 A  A  A      A
Gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales               A  A  A      A
Grain elevator                                            -  P  P      -
Heavy equipment sales, rental or service                  -  P1 P1     P1
Junkyard or automobile wrecking yard                      -  -  C      C
Kennel, commercial                                        -  C  -      C
Laundry or linen supply                                   -  P1 P1     C
Manufacture of electronic or electrical products          P1 P1 P1     C
Manufacture or processing of hazardous chemicals or gases -  -  C      -
Manufactured home storage                                 -  P  P      P
Meatpacking facility                                      -  -  C      -
Nursery, wholesale (only)                                 -  P  P      C
Off street parking facility                               C  P1 P1     P1
Office building                                           C  C  -      -
Office, relating to an approved use                       A  A  A      A
Office, temporary construction                            A  A  A      A
Outdoor storage area, for an approved use                 A  A  A      A
Package and letter delivery service                       -  P1 P1     P1
Personal, business, or professional service               C  C  -      -
Pit, mine, or quarry                                      -  -  A or C A or C
Processing plant for agricultural or dairy products       -  C  P1     P1
Product fabrication, assembly, or packaging               P1 P1 P1     P1
Public or quasi-public use                                C  C  C      C
Railroad switching yard                                   -  -  P      P
Recycling center                                          -  P1 P1     P1
Recycling plant                                           -  -  P1     P1
Research and development facility                         P1 P1 P1     P1
Restaurant or eating place                                C  C  C      C
Retail sales relating to an approved use                  A  A  A      -
Sawmill or planing mill                                   -  -  P1     -
School, vocational or trade                               C  P1 -      -
Sign, nonaccessory, off premises                          P1 P1 P1     P1
Small wireless facility                                   A  A  A      A
Soil or water remediation, in situ                        P  P  P      P
Storage facility, self-service                            -  P1 P1     P1
Studio                                                    -  P1 -      -
Tannery                                                   -  -  P1     -
Tower or antenna structure, commercial                    C  C  C      -
Tower or antenna structure, private                       A  A  A      C
Transit facility                                          P1 -  -      -
Vehicle impound yard                                      -  -  P1     P1
Warehouse                                                 -  P1 P1     P1
Winery                                                    -  P1 P1     P1
1.   Principally permitted uses located outside of areas of city impact will
be processed as a conditional use.
 
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd.
Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd.
Ord. 801, 9-12-2012; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019; amd.
Ord. 954, 6-14-2023)
8-2D-4:DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Tables 8-2D-2 and 8-2D-3 of this section shall be used for development in the
respective industrial base districts.
TABLE 8-2D-2: MINIMUM SETBACKS BY INDUSTRIAL BASE DISTRICT
 
Minimum  TI                   M1                   M2                   M3
Setbacks          Abutting             Abutting             Abutting             Abutting
(In      Standard Residential Standard Residential Standard Residential Standard Residential
Feet)
Front
yard     60       100         20       20          20       20          20       20
setback
Flanking
street   60       100         15       20          15       20          15       20
setback
Rear
yard     60       100         0        15          0        15          0        15
setback
Side
yard     60       100         0        15          0        15          0        15
setback
 
TABLE 8-2D-3: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BY INDUSTRIAL BASE DISTRICT
 
Dimensional Standards                  TI  M1  M2  M3
Minimum property size (in square feet) n/a n/a n/a n/a
Maximum coverage (percent)             35  80  80  80
Maximum structure height (in feet)     45  50  50  50
Minimum street frontage (in feet)1     30  30  30  30
Minimum property depth (in feet)       100 100 100 100
 
Note:
   1.    Developments utilizing continuous service drives may be exempt from
the roadway frontage requirements.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 763, 10-13-2010)
ARTICLE E. PLANNED COMMUNITY BASE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-2E-1: Purpose
8-2E-2: General Overview
8-2E-3: Allowed Uses, Dimensional Standards And Regulations
8-2E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide for planned communities both within
and outside areas of city impact in accord with the applicable comprehensive
plan. The planned community (PC) base district is intended to allow small town
or urban type development when urban public facilities and services can be
provided, and to allow community specific subarea comprehensive plans and
zoning regulations for each planned community. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-2E-2: GENERAL OVERVIEW:
   A.   An application for a planned community shall be reviewed in accord with
the process and standards outlined in chapter 8 of this title.
   B.   All development within a planned community shall be reviewed in accord
with the applicable planned community subarea comprehensive plan and planned
community overlay district.
   C.   In areas of city impact, the planned community subarea comprehensive
plan amendment requires an amendment application to the area of city impact be
submitted to the director. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-2E-3: ALLOWED USES, DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Specific overlay districts are designated for each planned community.
Each planned community overlay district identifies distinct allowed uses,
dimensional standards and regulations that are specific to each planned
community established on the official zoning map of Ada County as planned
community (PC).
   B.   A planned community overlay district is subject to the standards and
regulations that are applicable to all base districts unless different
standards and regulations are specifically authorized in the planned community
overlay district. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
CHAPTER 3
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Overlay Districts Established
8-3-2: Allowed Uses
8-3-3: Multiple Overlay Districts
8-3-4: Standards And Regulations
8-3-1: OVERLAY DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, the unincorporated territory of Ada County,
Idaho, has the following categories of overlay districts:
   A.   Article A. Boise air terminal airport influence areas overlay district.
   B.   Article B. Wildland-urban fire interface overlay district.
   C.   Article C. Southwest planning area overlay district.
   D.   Article D. Planned unit development overlay district.
   E.   Article E. Area of military influence overlay district.
   F.   Article F. Flood hazard overlay district.
   G.   Article G. Boise River greenway overlay district.
   H.   Article H. Hillside overlay district.
   I.   Article I. Avimor planned community overlay district.
   J.   Article J. Reserved.
   K.   Article K. Cartwright Ranch planned community.
   L.   Article L. Reserved.
   M.   Article M. Reserved.
   N.   Article N. Dry Creek Ranch planned community. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 762, 10-13-2010; amd. Ord. 777, 5-11-2011;
amd. Ord. 784, 6-8-2011; amd. Ord. 812, 8-14-2013)
8-3-2: ALLOWED USES:
A use that is allowed in the underlying base district may be prohibited subject
to the regulations of an overlay district. With the exception of the planned
unit development overlay district and any planned community overlay district,
an overlay district shall not be construed to allow a use that is otherwise not
allowed in the underlying base district. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 738,
2-23-2010)
8-3-3: MULTIPLE OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
Where a property is subject to the regulations of more than one overlay
district as outlined in this chapter, the requirements of an overlay district
shall not be waived or modified unless specifically authorized through
procedures set forth in said overlay district. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3-4: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
A planned community overlay district is subject to the standards and
regulations that are applicable to all base districts unless different
standards and regulations are specifically authorized in the planned community
overlay district. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
ARTICLE A. BOISE AIR TERMINAL AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREAS OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Purpose
8-3A-2: Applicability
8-3A-3: Standards
8-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to:
   A.   Implement the goals, objectives, and policies of the applicable
comprehensive plan as it relates to airport influence areas.
   B.   Provide for land uses that are compatible with aircraft noise, approach
zones, and airport operations.
   C.   Establish the boundaries of the Boise air terminal airport influence
areas overlay district.
   D.   Promote the public health, safety, and welfare by limiting and/or
placing additional restrictions on land use activities within the Boise air
terminal airport influence areas overlay district consistent with the federal
aviation regulations part 150 noise compatibility study for Boise air terminal.
The purpose of each influence area is as follows:
      1.   Influence area A: To establish use restrictions and noise
attenuation standards for uses subject to noise levels of up to sixty five (65)
dNL.
      2.   Influence area B-1: To establish use restrictions and noise
attenuation standards for uses subject to noise levels of up to seventy (70)
dNL, while acknowledging existing residential uses.
      3.   Influence area B: To establish use restrictions and noise
attenuation standards for uses subject to noise levels of up to seventy (70)
dNL.
      4.   Influence area C: To establish use restrictions and noise
attenuation standards for uses subject to noise levels of up to seventy five
(75) dNL or greater. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3A-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to: new subdivisions and new construction,
alteration, moving, or change of use of residential, commercial, or industrial
structures within the overlay district as identified on the Boise air terminal
airport influence areas map, the limits of which are adopted by ordinance 391
on file at the development services department, or as hereinafter may be
amended. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3A-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   General Airport Influence Area Standards:
      1.   Prior to issuance of a zoning certificate, the applicant shall
provide written documentation that the property owner has filed an avigation
easement with the Boise air terminal.
      2.   Despite any other regulations of this title, no use shall be
permitted within the airport influence areas that creates hazards to aircraft
and/or impairs landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft.
      3.   Any principal permitted use within airport influence area C shall
require conditional use approval. Agriculture and nonaccessory, off premises
signs, as herein defined, shall be exempt from this regulation.
      4.   Within airport influence area B-1, new residential subdivisions
shall not exceed a density of three (3) dwelling units per acre.
      5.   Within airport influence area B, new dwellings and/or new
residential subdivisions shall be prohibited unless the subject property is
designated for a residential land use in the applicable comprehensive plan.
      6.   No increase in residential density shall be allowed for properties
within airport influence area B.
      7.   Within the runway approach zones, population density shall not
exceed forty (40) people per acre within a structure and/or seventy five (75)
people per acre outside a structure.
   B.   Additional Standards By Influence Area: The underlying base district
establishes allowed uses.
Table 8-3A-1 of this section lists the additional standards by use.
TABLE 8-3A-1: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS BY USE AND AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREA
Use A B-1 B C
Use                      A      B-1        B          C
Accessory structure         *   *       *       *
Adult entertainment         *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
establishment
Adult respite care       25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
center
Agricultural produce     *      *          *          *
stand
Agricultural service        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
establishment
Agricultural structure      *   *       *       *
Agricultural use            *   *       *       *
Aircraft landing field      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
(private ownership)
Airport (public             *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
ownership)
Amusement or recreation     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
facility, indoor
Amusement or recreation     *25 dBA     25 dBA     Prohibited
facility, outdoor
Animal boarding with        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
outside runs
Animal clinic, animal
hospital, or veterinary     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
office
Asphalt or concrete         *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
ready mix plant
Auction establishment,      *25 dBA     25 dBA     Prohibited
outdoor
Automobile, major repair    *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Automobile or
recreational vehicle        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
sales or service
Automotive, hobby           *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Bank                        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Bar, brewpub, or            *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
nightclub
Bed and breakfast        25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
establishment
Boarding house           25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Brewery or distillery       *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Campground               25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
Car wash                    *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Cemetery                    *   *       *    25 dBA
Children's treatment     25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
facility
Church2                     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Clinic, medical
(excluding animal or     25 dBA 25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
veterinary)
Club or lodge or social     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
hall2
Composting facility,        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
commercial
Contractor's yard or        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
shop
Crematory                   *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Dangerous or protected      *   *       *       *
animals
Daycare center           25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
Drive-up window service     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Drug and alcohol         25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
treatment facility
Duplex or single-family  25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
attached dwelling1
Dwelling, additional     25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
farm1
Dwelling, caretaker for  25 dBA 30 dBA     35 dBA     35 dBA
an approved use
Dwelling, secondary      25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
attached1
Dwelling, secondary      25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
detached1
Dwelling, single-family  25 dBA 30 dBA     35 dBA     Prohibited
detached1
Explosive manufacturing     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
or storage2
Family daycare home      25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Farm, garden, lumber, or    *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
building supply store
Fence, barbed wire,         *   *       *       *
electric wire, or other
Flammable substance         *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
storage2
Foster home, group       25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Foundry                     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Freight or truck            *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
terminal
Fuel cell                   *   *       *       *
Gasoline, diesel, or
alternative fuel sales      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
facility2
Golf course and country     *25 dBA     25 dBA     Prohibited
club2
Grain elevator              *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Group daycare facility   25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
Heavy equipment sales or    *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
service
Home occupation             *   *       *       *
Hospital2                25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Hotel or motel           25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Junkyard or automobile      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
wrecking yard
Kennel, commercial          *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Kennel, hobby               *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Laundromat                  *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Laundry or linen supply     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Livestock confinement       *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
facility
Manufacture of
electronic or electrical    *25 dBA     25 dBA     30 dBA
products
Manufacture or
processing of hazardous     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
chemicals or gases2
Manufactured home1       25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Manufactured home park1  25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Manufactured home           *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
storage
Manufactured home
subdivision or park in a 25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
manufactured home
district
Meatpacking facility        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Mortuary                    *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Multi-family development 25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Nursery, wholesale or       *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
retail
Nursing facility,        25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
skilled2
Off street parking          *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
facility
Office building             *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Office, relating to an      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
approved use
Office, temporary           *   *       *       *
construction
Outdoor storage             *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Package and letter          *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
delivery service
Personal, business, or      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
professional service
Pit, mine, or quarry        *   *       *       *
Portable classroom       25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
Processing plant for
agricultural or dairy       *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
products
Product fabrication,        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
assembly, or packaging
Public or quasi-public                              
use:
   Indoor                *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
   Outdoor               *25 dBA     25 dBA     Prohibited
Racetrack, vehicle or       *25 dBA     25 dBA     Prohibited
animal2
Radio or television         *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
broadcasting station
Railroad switching yard     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Recreational vehicle     25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
park
Recycling center            *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Recycling plant             *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Research and development    *25 dBA     25 dBA     30 dBA
facility
Residential care         25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
facility
Restaurant or eating        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
place
Retail sales relating to    *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
an approved use
Retail store                *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Roadside produce stand      *   *       *       *
Sanitary landfill,          *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
restricted
Sawmill or planing mill     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
School, public or        25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
private2
School, vocational or    25 dBA Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
trade2
Seasonal farmworker      25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
housing1
Shooting range, indoor      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
or outdoor
Slaughterhouse              *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Soil or water               *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
remediation
Stable or riding arena,  25 dBA 25 dBA     25 dBA     Prohibited
commercial
Storage facility, self-     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
service
Structure >10,000 square    *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
feet
Studio                      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Swimming pool, private      *   *       *       *
Tannery                     *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Temporary living         25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
quarters1
Tower or antenna
structure, commercial or Compliance with federal aviation regulations 14 CFR 77
private
Transit facility            *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Truck stop                  *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
   Lodging facilities 25 dBA 30 dBA     Prohibited Prohibited
Vehicle impound yard        *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Warehouse                   *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
Winery                      *25 dBA     25 dBA     25 dBA
 
Notes:
   1.   Not to exceed a density of 3 dwelling units per acre in the B-1 overlay
district. Calculation shall be based on the individual property or on proposed
development area for the master site plan, as applicable.
   2.   Prohibited in the runway approach zones.
Legend:
25 dBA - Sound attenuation measures to achieve a noise level reduction of 25
dBA are required for residential dwellings or establishments providing
overnight lodging facilities. For commercial or industrial uses, measures to
achieve a noise level reduction of 25 dBA shall be incorporated into the design
and construction of reception, office, sleeping, animal confinement, and other
noise sensitive areas.
30 dBA - Sound attenuation measures to achieve a noise level reduction of 30
dBA are required for residential dwellings or establishments providing
overnight lodging facilities. For commercial or industrial uses, measures to
achieve a noise level reduction of 30 dBA shall be incorporated into the design
and construction of reception, office, sleeping, animal confinement, and other
noise sensitive areas.
35 dBA - Sound attenuation measures to achieve a noise level reduction of 35
dBA shall be incorporated into the design and construction of reception,
office, sleeping, eating, animal confinement, and other noise sensitive areas.
Prohibited - Any new use shall be prohibited. Existing uses shall be deemed
nonconforming uses and shall be subject to the regulations of chapter 1,
article B of this title.
* - The underlying base district regulates the use. No additional standards are
required.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 582, 5-25-2005; amd. Ord. 591, 7-27-2005; amd.
Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012)
ARTICLE B. WILDLAND-URBAN FIRE INTERFACE OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Purpose
8-3B-2: Applicability
8-3B-3: Standards
8-3B-4: Prohibited Uses
8-3B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare by establishing standards to:
   A.   Minimize the potential of spreading fire from wildland areas to
structures;
   B.   Establish special standards that apply to new construction, alteration,
moving, or change of use of habitable structures, with the intent to reduce the
threat of loss of life and property from fire;
   C.   Require vehicle turnouts on new private roads with the intent to
provide better emergency access to remote areas; and
   D.   Require that new subdivisions and planned unit developments provide
water supply systems and suitable access for firefighting crews, with the
intent to increase the resources available to such crews and minimize the
spread of fire. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3B-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   These regulations shall apply to: 1) new subdivisions, 2) new private
roads, and 3) new construction, alteration, moving, or change of use of
residential, commercial or industrial structures within the overlay district as
identified on the wildland-urban fire interface overlay district map, the
limits of which are adopted by ordinance 391 on file at the county development
services department, or as hereinafter may be amended.
   B.   Nonhabitable structures shall be exempt from these regulations, except
when located within the defensible space as set forth in the regulations of
subsection 8-3B-3A1 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3B-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   Vegetation Control:
      1.   Any new construction, alteration, moving, or change of use of a
habitable structure shall be required to establish a minimum fifty foot (50')
defensible space around the perimeter of any habitable structure. Property
owners shall be responsible for maintaining the defensible space, unless such
responsibility is transferred to another party through a binding contract. The
defensible space shall meet the following criteria:
         a.   Only single specimens of trees, ornamental vegetation, cultivated
ground cover (such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar plants), or
native grasses and weeds trimmed to a maximum height of four inches (4"), are
allowed within the defensible space, provided any such plants do not form a
means of readily transmitting fire. All other vegetation shall be removed from
the defensible space. See section
8-1A-2, "Figure 9", of this title.
         b.   All deadwood shall be removed from trees within the defensible
space. Clusters or groups of trees shall be thinned such that the tree crowns
do not overlap. Trees within the defensible space shall be pruned to remove all
limbs located below six feet (6') from the adjacent grade. See section
8-1A-2, "Figure 10", of this title.
         c.   Tree crowns shall be pruned to maintain a minimum horizontal
clearance of ten feet (10') from any structure or outlet of a chimney.
         d.   Liquefied petroleum gas containers shall be located within the
defensible space in accord with the applicable code as adopted by the state of
Idaho.
         e.   Firewood and combustible material shall not be stored in
unenclosed spaces beneath structures, on decks, or under eaves, canopies, or
other projections or overhangs. All firewood and combustible material stored in
the defensible space shall be located a minimum of twenty feet (20') from
structures and separated from the crown of trees by a minimum horizontal
distance of fifteen feet (15').
         f.   Agricultural structures, as herein defined, shall not be allowed
within the defensible space.
         g.   All accessory structures within the defensible space must meet
the fire resistive construction standards for structures as established by the
Ada County building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
         h.   If an abutting public street or approved private road meets the
standards for the defensible space as set forth above, the width of such
roadway shall be counted as part of the defensible space.
      2.   All areas adjacent to private roads and driveways shall be cleared
of vegetation. Single specimens of trees, ornamental vegetation, cultivated
ground cover (such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar plants), or
native grasses and weeds trimmed to a maximum height of four inches (4"), are
allowed, provided any such plants do not form a means of readily transmitting
fire.
         a.   For driveways, all areas within five feet (5') of each side of
the driveway shall be cleared.
         b.   For private roads, the area encompassed by the travelway plus
five feet (5') on each side of the travelway, measured from the outside edge of
the travelway, shall be cleared of all flammable vegetation.
      3.   All vegetation shall be cleared from within thirty one inches (31")
of any above grade electrical distribution and transmission lines.
      4.   All vegetation shall be cleared from within ten (10) radial feet of
any noninsulated energized electrical conductor and associated live parts.
Cultivated ground cover (such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar
plants), or native grasses and weeds trimmed to a maximum height of four inches
(4"), are allowed provided any such plants do not form a means of readily
transmitting fire.
      5.   For new driveways, new construction, or moving of structures on a
site, the areas that require vegetation removal shall be located within the
property boundaries. The director may approve a lesser standard if one or both
of the following findings can be made:
         a.   The property abuts a public or approved private road as set forth
in subsection A1h of this section; and/or
         b.   Severe topographic or other site constraints exist that prohibit
locating new construction to meet the specified standard.
      6.   For the purposes of this section, the term "cleared" shall mean the
removal of all vegetation with the following exception: single specimens of
trees, ornamental vegetation, cultivated ground cover (such as green grass,
ivy, succulents, or similar plants), and native grasses and weeds trimmed to a
maximum height of four inches (4"), are allowed provided any such plants do not
form a means of readily transmitting fire.
      7.   It is not the intent of this section to require an owner to relocate
existing habitable structures, driveways, or utilities, nor to require an owner
to remove vegetation from an abutting property.
   B.   Private Roads:
      1.   Vehicular turnouts for emergency vehicles shall be required on all
new private roads. Such turnouts shall be spaced at a maximum interval of seven
hundred feet (700') and shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') wide and thirty
feet (30') long. Road construction and vehicular turnarounds shall meet the
private road standards as set forth in section
8-4D-4 of this title. Driveways that meet turnout standards shall be counted as
turnouts, provided they are a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide and thirty feet
(30') long.
      2.   Maintenance of the private road shall include vegetation control as
specified in subsection A2b of this section.
   C.   New Subdivisions And Planned Unit Developments:
      1.   Fire hazards and emergency access roads shall be evaluated by a
licensed fire professional engineer retained by the applicant to determine site
specific hazards and proper accessibility for emergency vehicles. The licensed
fire professional engineer shall also prepare a fire protection plan that is
specifically tailored to the proposed subdivision or planned unit development
and shall consist of the following:
         a.   Completed fire hazard severity form from the current
international urban-wildland interface code, appendix C, using nationally
recognized standards;
         b.   A fire protection plan map showing the roadway, turnouts,
turnarounds, terminus and lots;
         c.   Determination of fuel model loading;
         d.   Required signage for turnouts, turnarounds and fire lane parking;
         e.   Required number and placement of turnouts based on development
density and roadway width;
         f.   Requirements for fire resistance rated construction;
         g.   Required road width or required interconnected system of roadways
and fire accesses.
      2.   The fire protection plan shall be reviewed by the applicable fire
district, or if no fire district, the Ada County sheriff, with advice from the
Idaho state fire marshal, as part of the agency review process of subdivisions
and planned unit developments.
   D.   Alternative Development Proposal: The director may approve, or
recommend approval of, an alternative development proposal when the overall
design, as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the
requirements of this article and shall not be detrimental to public health,
safety, and welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord.
490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 560, 8-24-2004; amd. Ord. 592, 8-2-2005; amd. Ord.
628, 7-12-2006; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-3B-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Campgrounds and seasonal farmworker housing shall be prohibited within the
wildland-urban fire interface overlay district. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE C. SOUTHWEST PLANNING AREA OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Purpose
8-3C-2: Applicability
8-3C-3: Standards
8-3C-1: PURPOSE:
To establish standards to accommodate urban development in the southwest
planning area of the Boise City comprehensive plan that is compatible with high
ground water and drainage conditions and to ensure provision of urban public
facilities, in addition to other applicable standards and procedures in this
title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-3C-2: APPLICABILITY:
These development standards shall apply to development in the southwest
planning area of the Boise City comprehensive plan, the limits of which are
adopted by ordinance 391 on file at the county development services department,
or as hereinafter may be amended. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3C-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   New development, excluding single-family detached dwellings on existing
platted lots or on properties 2.5 acres or larger, shall be served by urban
public facilities.
   B.   If an existing wastewater treatment system fails, as determined by the
Central district health department, the property owner shall connect to the
Boise sewer system, if a collection line is located within three hundred feet
(300'). If a collection line is not located within three hundred feet (300'),
then the existing wastewater treatment system may be replaced with a system
approved by the Central district health department.
   C.   Creeks, streambeds, and riparian areas within new southwest community
development shall be left in a natural state, not channeled, and kept free of
any obstructions to water flows, excluding any necessary road and/or public
service crossings. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
ARTICLE D. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3D-1: Purpose
8-3D-2: Applicability
8-3D-3: Process
8-3D-4: Standards
8-3D-5: Required Findings
8-3D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the planned unit development (PUD) overlay district is to allow
flexibility in site design and dimensional standards to develop residential,
commercial and/or industrial uses not allowed individually within specific
zoning districts, resulting in:
   A.   A more efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of open space and
recreational amenities;
   B.   A density compatible with abutting development;
   C.   An integrated development that is served by urban public facilities;
   D.   Protection of existing natural, scenic, and historic resources; and
   E.   Protection of existing neighborhoods through buffering techniques
including screen planting, open space, and landscaping. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-3D-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The proposed project area is within an area of city impact.
   B.   The minimum area for a planned unit development shall be five (5)
acres.
   C.   The planned unit development overlay is required for any development or
subdivision proposal that involves one or more of the following:
      1.   A mix of uses that are not allowed as principal permitted or
conditional uses in the same base district;
      2.   Clustering of residential units away from physical constraints or
hazardous areas. Such constraints include, but are not limited to, the
following: flood hazards, unstable geologic conditions, soil conditions,
topography, identified high ground water areas, and other characteristics that
could threaten public health and/or safety; and/or
      3.   Deviation of dimensional standards to achieve dedicated open space
and provide amenities not found in traditional subdivisions. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
8-3D-3: PROCESS:
   A.   The applicant shall comply with the regulations for a zoning ordinance
map amendment in chapter 7 of this title.
   B.   The applicant shall concurrently submit and obtain approval for a
master site plan subject to the regulations of chapter 4, article E of this
title.
   C.   The applicant shall concurrently submit and obtain approval for a
development agreement subject to the regulations of chapter 7, article C of
this title.
   D.   If appropriate, the applicant shall concurrently submit and obtain
approval for a subdivision subject to the regulations of chapter 6 of this
title.
   E.   The commission and board shall apply the standards listed in section
8-3D-4 of this article and the required findings listed in section
8-3D-5 of this article to determine whether or not to approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the planned unit development.
   F.   Upon approval by the board that the planned unit development overlay
and development agreement is in conformance with this title, the zoning
ordinance map amendment shall be published. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3D-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   General Use Standards:
      1.   No more than twenty percent (20%) of the total area of the planned
unit development shall be designated for uses not otherwise permitted in the
base district.
      2.   The uses within the planned unit development are interconnected
through a system of roadways and/or pathways as appropriate.
   B.   Residential Density Standards:
      1.   The allowable density for residential uses shall be the density
established by the applicable comprehensive plan. Where the applicable
comprehensive plan does not indicate an urban density for development, the
minimum density shall be three (3) dwelling units per acre. Higher densities
may be allowed in accord with the bonus provisions contained in this subsection
B.
      2.   An increase in the average residential density may be allowed by
incorporating dedicated open space or public use dedications into the planned
unit development. All dedications shall be shown on the master site plan.
         a.   Additional Open Space Dedication: For each full additional
percentage point of property in dedicated open space above the minimum
requirements, the average residential density may be increased by the same
percentage. In no event shall the maximum density for residential areas exceed
an additional twenty five percent (25%) over the base density.
         b.   Public Amenity Dedications: A density bonus may be approved for
dedications of facilities or interests in real property for public amenities.
The maximum density bonus shall be as set forth in table
8-3D-1 of this section. See subsection
8-3D-5G of this article regarding required findings for mandatory dedication of
facilities.
         c.   Public Amenity Defined: For the purposes of this article, the
term "public amenity" shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
school site, bike path, transit facility, park site, park and ride lot, and
public safety facility such as police, fire, or emergency medical facilities.
TABLE 8-3D-1: DENSITY BONUS AS PERCENT OF TOTAL PROJECT
 
Area Of Land Designated As Public Use Facility Dedication Maximum Density Bonus
As Percent Of Total Project Area
15 percent                                                5 percent
20 percent                                                10 percent
25 percent                                                15 percent
 
   C.   Dedicated Open Space Uses: Dedicated open space uses shall comply with
the regulations of chapter 4, article J of this title.
   D.   Commercial Uses: The following design standards shall apply to any
proposed commercial uses within a planned unit development:
      1.   Joint parking facilities shall be planned to use common access
points to public streets.
      2.   Screening shall be provided on the perimeter of commercial uses
abutting the residential areas as provided in section
8-4F-6 of this title.
      3.   Commercial uses not allowed as a principal permitted or conditional
use in the base district:
         a.   Shall be designed to share common design themes in landscaping,
signs, architecture, and building bulk with other uses within the planned unit
development; and
         b.   Shall not exceed a gross floor area of twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet.
   E.   Industrial Uses: The following design standards shall apply to any
proposed industrial uses within a PUD:
      1.   Landscaping shall be provided as required in section
8-4F-7 of this title for parking areas, loading areas, and outdoor storage
areas of industrial materials.
      2.   Screening shall be provided on the perimeter of industrial uses
abutting the residential areas as provided in section
8-4F-6 of this title.
      3.   Structure location shall be designed to promote efficient
installation of utilities.
      4.   Industrial uses not allowed as a principal permitted or conditional
use in the base district:
         a.   Shall be designed to share common design themes in landscaping,
signage, architecture, and building bulk with other uses within the planned
unit development; and
         b.   Shall not exceed a gross floor area of ten thousand (10,000)
square feet.
   F.   Improvements:
      1.   Improvements, consistent with the standards established in the area
or as designated in any officially adopted comprehensive plan or component
thereof, shall be required as a condition of approval of a planned unit
development.
      2.   In the event any improvements required as part of the planned unit
development cannot be completed prior to submission of a final plat and/or
signing of the master site plan, the applicant or owner shall deposit a surety
as set forth in chapter 4, article K of this title.
   G.   Deviations: As part of the original application, the applicant may
request, in writing, a deviation from the dimensional standards of this title.
Where applicable, the proposed deviations shall be noted on the master site
plan.
   H.   Alternative Development Standards: The director may approve, or
recommend approval of, alternative development standards when the overall
design, as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the
requirements of this article and shall not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, and welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-3D-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   The arrangement of uses and/or structures conforms to the topography
and natural landscape features;
   B.   The arrangement of uses and/or structures in the development shall not
cause damage, hazard, or nuisance to persons or property in the vicinity;
   C.   The internal street system is designed for the efficient and safe flow
of vehicles and pedestrians without having a disruptive influence upon the
activities and functions contained within the development, nor place an undue
burden upon existing transportation and other public services in the
surrounding area;
   D.   Community facilities, such as a park, recreational, and dedicated open
space areas are functionally related and accessible to all dwelling units via
pedestrian and/or bicycle pathways. Dedicated open space shall abut any lots
that have been reduced below the minimum property size and shall abut multi-
family development within the planned unit development;
   E.   The proposal complies with the density standards set forth in this
article;
   F.   The planned unit development district overlay is in conformance with
the applicable comprehensive plan, future acquisition maps, area of city impact
ordinance, and other applicable ordinances; and
   G.   Additional required findings for mandatory public use facility
dedications:
      1.   The dedication of the public use facility is substantiated by the
governing board responsible for the facility;
      2.   The public use facility shall serve the public interest in such
location;
      3.   The public use facility is consistent with the applicable
comprehensive plan; and
      4.   The area and location of property to be dedicated to the public use
facility bears a reasonable relationship to the demand generated by the
proposed development. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE E. AREA OF MILITARY INFLUENCE OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3E-1: Purpose
8-3E-2: Applicability
8-3E-3: Process
8-3E-4: Standards
8-3E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to:
   A.   Implement the goals, objectives, and policies of the applicable
comprehensive plan as it relates to the areas of military influence.
   B.   Provide for notification areas to ensure the Idaho national guard
officials are made aware of land use applications within the area of military
influence overlay district (AMI).
   C.   Establish the boundaries for the AMI consisting of:
      1.   A one-fourth (1/4) mile buffer along either side of the centerline
of Pleasant Valley Road that extends from Gowen Field to the Orchard Combat
Training Center to be known as the Military Tank Trail the limits of which are
adopted by ordinance 811 under legal description A attached thereto; and
      2.   A buffer area surrounding the Orchard Combat Training Center the
limits of which are adopted by ordinance 811 under legal description B attached
thereto.
   D.   Promote the public health, safety, and welfare by having regulations
and standards for new development within the AMI to ensure compatibility with
military activity occurring in the AMI. (Ord. 812, 8-14-2013)
8-3E-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to new subdivisions and new construction, and the
alteration, moving, or change of use of residential, commercial, or industrial
structures within the adopted AMI, excluding uses housed within structures that
are either listed on the national register of historic places, structures
identified by the Ada County historic preservation council as having historical
significance, or structures identified as contributing in an archeological or
historical survey or study accepted by the state historic preservation office.
(Ord. 812, 8-14-2013)
8-3E-3: PROCESS:
Applications shall be transmitted to the appropriate agency, including, but not
limited to, the following: national guard, Mountain Home military base, and the
Boise Airport director. (Ord. 812, 8-14-2013)
8-3E-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Uses that require a conditional use, master site plan, planned
community or subdivision application located within the AMI shall address
compatibility issues such as intermittent noise, dust, traffic, and other
development design issues as to the extent necessary.
   B.   For subdivisions located within the AMI the following statement shall
appear on the face of the final plat:
This development recognizes that it is in an Area of Military Influence (AMI)
and as such there will be times during the course of the year that properties
could be subject to intermittent dust, noise, and military traffic.
   C.   Development shall conform to FAR part 77 height limits or as may be
amended as not to pose a safety hazard to air traffic. (Ord. 812, 8-14-2013)
ARTICLE F. FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3F-0: Warning And Disclaimer
8-3F-1: Purpose
8-3F-2: Authority
8-3F-3: Applicability
8-3F-4: Administration
8-3F-5: Definitions
8-3F-6: Process
8-3F-7: General Regulations
8-3F-8: Standards For Special Flood Hazard Areas
8-3F-8-1: Land Use Restrictions
8-3F-8-2: A And D Zones
8-3F-8-3: AE And AH Zones
8-3F-8-4: AO Zone
8-3F-8-5: Regulatory Floodway
8-3F-8-6: Foothill Or Hillside Tributary Floodplain
8-3F-9: Required Finding
8-3F-10: Appeals
8-3F-11: Variances To Flood Insurance Program Standards
8-3F-0: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER:
The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased due to artificial or natural causes. This article does not imply that
property outside the identified special flood hazard areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages, or that uses permitted within the identified special
flood hazard areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This article
shall not create liability on the part of Ada County, any officer or employee
thereof, or the federal insurance and mitigation administration, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this article or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life, health, and property;
   B.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
   C.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   D.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   E.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   F.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-2: AUTHORITY:
This article is adopted pursuant to Idaho Code section 46-1001, et seq., which
authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain management ordinances that
identify floodplains and minimum floodplain development standards to minimize
flood hazards and protect human life, health, and property. (Ord. 835, 12-3-
2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-3: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this article shall apply to "development" as defined in this
article, within all special flood hazard areas identified by one or more of the
following:
   A.   The federal insurance and mitigation administration in a scientific and
engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) For Ada County,
Idaho," revised June 19, 2020, and all subsequent amendments and revisions, and
the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) and Digital Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (DFIRMS), and all subsequent amendments and revisions to such maps,
are hereby adopted by reference and serve as the basis for establishing flood
hazard areas. Maps and studies that establish flood hazard areas are on file at
the Ada County development services department.
   B.   Foothill or other hillside tributary floodways as herein defined.
   C.   Any area determined by the floodplain administrator to be a hazard to
public health, safety, and welfare due to flooding, including, but not limited
to, "development," as defined, necessary to comply with existing state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code requirements. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914,
6-10- 2020)
8-3F-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Floodplain Administrator Responsibilities: The Director, and/or his/her
designee, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain Administrator," is hereby
appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this article and shall
have the following responsibilities in all special flood hazard areas:
      1.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this article have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary Local, State, and Federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC section 1334.
      3.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water
Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. (This is the LOMC
procedure.)
      4.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. (This is a Hydraulic &
Hydrology Analysis.)
      5.   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of section
8-3F-8-5  of this article are met.
      6.   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
section
8-3F-6  of this article.
      7.   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-3F-6  of this article.
      8.   Review plans to verify public utilities are constructed in
accordance with the provisions of section
8-3F-7  of this article.
      9.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
and maintain certifications from a registered professional engineer or
architect in accordance with the provisions of section
8-3F-6  of this article.
      10.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, and floodways (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this article.
      11.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of section
8-3F-3  of this article, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data,
along with floodway data available from a Federal, State, or other source,
including data developed pursuant to section
8-3F-6  of this article, in order to administer the provisions of this article.
      12.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of section
8-3F-3  of this article, require that no new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within
Zones A (or A1-30) and AE on Ada County's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within Ada County.
(This is a Hydraulic & Hydrology Analysis.)
      13.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA) is above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of
the option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a
copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
      14.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this article.
      15.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of this article and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within Ada County at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or
other enforcement action.
      16.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this article, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed.
      17.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
      18.   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within Ada County.
      19.   Prohibit activities that violate the regulations of this article.
      20.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
      21.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of section
8-3F-3  of this article, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
      22.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
   B.   Interpretation: All of the regulations of this article shall be
considered as minimum requirements, shall be considered liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed to limit or repeal any
other powers granted under state statutes. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; amd. Ord. 914,
6-10-2020)
8-3F-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the terms, as herein defined, shall be used
in the administration of this article:
 
                          A special flood hazard area delineated on the flood
                          insurance rate map (FIRM) that is subject to
                          inundation by the one percent (1%) annual chance
A ZONE:                   flood event generally determined using approximate
                          methodologies. Because detailed hydraulic analyses
                          have not been performed, no base flood elevations or
                          flood depths are shown.
                          A special flood hazard area delineated on the flood
                          insurance rate map (FIRM) that is subject to
AE ZONE:                  inundation by the one percent (1%) annual chance
                          flood event determined by detailed methods. Base
                          flood elevations are shown.
                          A special flood hazard area delineated on the flood
                          insurance rate map (FIRM) that is subject to
                          inundation by one percent (1%) annual chance shallow
AH ZONE:                  flooding, usually in the form of a pond, where
                          average depths are between one and three feet (3').
                          Base flood elevations derived from detailed hydraulic
                          analyses are shown at selected intervals in this
                          zone.
                          A special flood hazard area delineated on the flood
                          insurance rate map (FIRM) that is a river or stream
                          hazard area and subject to inundation by one percent
AO ZONE:                  (1%) annual chance shallow flooding, usually in the
                          form of sheet flow, where average depths are between
                          one and three feet (3'). Average flood depths derived
                          from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in this
                          zone.
                          An area within the flood fringe shown on the flood
                          insurance rate map (FIRM) as an AO or an AH zone; and
                          where the base flood depths range from one to three
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: feet (3'), a clearly defined channel does not exist,
                          the path of flooding is unpredictable and
                          indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. See
                          AO ZONE.
                          The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being
BASE FLOOD:               equaled or exceeded each year. Also known as the
                          "regulatory flood."
 
 
                            A determination by the Federal Insurance
                            Administrator of the water surface elevations of
                            the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a
                            one percent or greater chance of occurrence in any
                            given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be obtained from
                            engineering studies available from a Federal,
                            State, or other source using FEMA-approved
                            engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
                            combined with the Freeboard, establishes the Flood
                            Protection Elevation.
                            Any area of a structure having its floor subgrade
BASEMENT:                   (below ground level) on all sides, including a
                            crawl space.
                            A structure erected perpendicular to the direction
                            of flow of floodwaters in a foothill or other
                            hillside tributary floodplain, and which does not
                            exceed ten feet (10') in height or fifty (50) acre-
CHECK DAM:                  feet of storage capacity and is constructed for the
                            purpose of reducing the velocity of floodwaters or
                            reducing flood flows downstream or both. For the
                            purposes of this article, energy dissipating
                            devices shall be considered check dams.
                            Mowing, cutting, or burning of weeds, trees and
                            other nuisance growth, including algae growth,
                            application of pesticides as permitted, removal of
CLEANING:                   beaver dams, and removal of trash or other debris
                            whether floating, lodged or otherwise obstructing
                            the conveyance of water flow through channels and
                            works.
                            Facilities that are vital to flood response
                            activities or critical to the health and safety of
                            the public before, during, and after a flood, such
                            as a hospital, emergency operations center,
                            electric substation, police station, fire station,
CRITICAL FACILITIES:        nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment storage
                            facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if
                            flooded, would make the flood problem and its
                            impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
                            facility, power generation facility, water utility,
                            or wastewater treatment plant.
 
 
                                  Development: any man-made change to
                                  improved or unimproved real estate,
                                  including but not limited to buildings or
DEVELOPMENT:                      other structures, mining, dredging,
                                  filling, grading, paving, excavation or
                                  drilling operations, or storage of
                                  equipment or materials.
                                  Any activity defined as Development which
                                  will necessitate a Floodplain Permit;
                                  This includes any manmade change to
                                  improved or unimproved real estate
                                  including, but not limited to, the
                                  construction of buildings, structures or
                                  accessory structures, or the construction
                                  of additions or substantial improvements
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY:             to buildings, structures or accessory
                                  structures; the placement of mobile
                                  homes; filling, mining, dredging,
                                  grading, paving, excavation or drilling
                                  operations; storage of equipment and
                                  materials; and the deposition or
                                  extraction of materials; specifically
                                  including the construction of dikes,
                                  berms and levees.
                                  A digital representation of a flood
                                  insurance rate map (FIRM) within an
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP  electronic mapping application depicting
(DFIRM):                          both the special flood hazard areas and
                                  the risk premium zones applicable within
                                  Ada County.
                                  The removal of sediment from the bottom
DREDGING:                         of streams creeks, irrigation and
                                  drainage channels and works.
                                  The Elevation Certificate is an important
                                  administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
                                  used to determine the proper flood
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE:            insurance premium rate; it is used to
                                  document elevation information; and it
                                  may be used to support a request for a
                                  Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter
                                  of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
                                  An examination, evaluation and
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY (FES):      determination of flood hazards, flood
                                  profiles, floodway boundaries and water
                                  surface elevation of the base flood.
                                  The area between the floodway and the one
                                  hundred (100) year floodplain boundary,
FLOOD FRINGE:                     including the AO and A zones where no
                                  floodway is identified (see section
                                  8-1A-2 , figure 18 of this title).
 
 
FLOOD     The official map of Ada County, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
INSURANCE delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable
RATE MAP  to Ada County. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a Digital
(FIRM):   Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD     An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
INSURANCE corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination, evaluation and
STUDY     determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
(FIS):
          A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
          dry land areas from:
             1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
             2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
          source.
             3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
          defined in paragraph A.2. of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR  flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
FLOODING: a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
          B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
          water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
          exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
          level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
          unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
          some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
          in paragraph A.1 of this definition.
 
 
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness
               plans, flood control works, and flood plain management regulations.
               Zoning articles, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose articles (such as a flood plain article, grading article, and
MANAGEMENT     erosion control article), and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:   describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which
               provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
FLOODPROOFING: adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
               or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
               contents.
               The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard.
FLOOD          A.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have
PROTECTION     been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus one and a half feet
ELEVATION      (1.5') of freeboard; and
(FPE):         B.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established, this
               elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
FLOODPLAIN:    Any land area susceptible to being inundated by floodwaters (see section
               8-1A-2 , figure 18 of this title).
FLOODPLAIN AND Is the reestablishment of the structure and function of ecosystems and
BANK           floodplains to return the ecosystem as closely as possible to its natural
RESTORATION:   conditions and functions prior to being developed or impacted by a natural
               event.
               Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
FLOODPROOFING: adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
               or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
               contents.
 
 
                               A FEMA form used to certify a
                               floodproofing design for a nonresidential
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE:     structure that is being floodproofed as an
                               alternative to elevating the structure to
                               or above the base flood elevation.
                               The channel of a river or other
                               watercourse and the adjacent land areas
FLOODWAY:                      that must be reserved in order to
                               discharge the base flood without
                               cumulatively increasing the water surface
                               elevation more than a designated height.
                               A watercourse or drainageway located in
FOOTHILL OR HILLSIDE TRIBUTARY the foothills or other hillside tributary
FLOODPLAIN:                    that collects and carries waters draining
                               from an area of greater than ten (10)
                               acres in size.
                               A factor of safety usually expressed in
                               feet above a flood level for the purposes
                               of floodplain management. Freeboard tends
                               to compensate for the many unknown factors
                               that could contribute to flood heights
                               greater than the height calculated for a
                               selected size flood and floodway
FREEBOARD:                     conditions, such as wave action,
                               obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice
                               jams, and the hydrologic effects of
                               urbanization in a watershed. The Base
                               Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the freeboard
                               establishes the Flood Protection Elevation
                               (FPE). Freeboard shall be one and half
                               feet (1.5').
                               A facility that cannot be used for its
                               intended purpose unless it is located or
                               carried out in close proximity to water,
                               such as a docking or port facility
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE:    necessary for the loading and unloading of
                               cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship
                               repair facilities. The term does not
                               include long-term storage, manufacture,
                               sales, or service facilities.
                               The highest natural elevation of the
                               ground surface prior to construction,
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE:        adjacent to the proposed walls of a
                               structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation
                               Certificate for HAG related to building
                               elevation information.
 
 
           A structure that is:
           A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
           maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
           Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
           the National Register;
           B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
           contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or
           to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC   historic district;
STRUCTURE: C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
           eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
           the Secretary of the Interior; or
           D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
           eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been
           certified either:
              1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
           Interior, or
              2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
           programs.
           A man-made or natural channel used to convey or deliver water for irrigation,
IRRIGATION drainage, or other uses, by irrigation districts, canal companies, lateral
OR         associations, drainage districts, or other water delivery entities. Irrigation and
DRAINAGE   drainage channels include man-made canals, ditches, laterals, culverts, flumes,
CHANNEL:   tiled drains, pipes, storage reservoirs, and natural channels (including
           reservoirs on natural channels), used to convey storage or other sources of water
           owned or controlled by an irrigation or drainage entity.
 
 
                                        Man-made structures used to divert,
                                        regulate, and measure water from
                                        natural channels (streams, rivers,
                                        lakes, and springs) and in man-made
                                        irrigation and drainage channels.
                                        Irrigation and drainage works include
                                        diversions or regulation structures,
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE WORKS:          including but not limited to control
                                        gates or head gates, check dams or
                                        diversion dams, culverts, measuring
                                        devices and their housing (including
                                        stilling wells and staff gages),
                                        flumes, siphons, pumps, pipes,
                                        protective structures, energy
                                        dissipaters, fish passage structures,
                                        and trash screens or trash racks.
                                        A general term used to refer to the
                                        several types of revisions and
                                        amendments to FIRMs that can be
                                        accomplished by letter. They include
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC):            Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter
                                        of Map Revision (LOMR), Letter of Map
                                        Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F), and
                                        Conditional Letters of Map Revision
                                        (CLOMR).
                                        An official amendment, by letter, to an
                                        effective National Flood Insurance
                                        Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes
                                        a property's or structure's location in
                                        relation to the Special Flood Hazard
   A.   Letter Of Map Amendment (LArea (SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued
                                        because a property or structure has
                                        been inadvertently mapped as being in
                                        the floodplain but is actually on
                                        natural high ground above the base
                                        flood elevation.
                                        FEMA's modification to an effective
                                        Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a
                                        Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM)
                                        or both. LOMRs are generally based on
                                        the implementation of physical measures
                                        that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
                                        characteristics of a flooding source
                                        and thus result in the modification of
                                        the existing regulatory floodway, the
                                        effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs),
   B.   Letter Of Map Revision (LOor the Special Flood Hazard Area
                                        (SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the
                                        Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
                                        Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM),
                                        and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study
                                        (FIS) report, and when appropriate,
                                        includes a description of the
                                        modifications. The LOMR is generally
                                        accompanied by an annotated copy of the
                                        affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or
                                        FIS report.
 
 
                                                       FEMA's modification of
                                                       the Special Flood Hazard
                                                       Area (SFHA) shown on the
                                                       Flood Insurance Rate Map
                                                       (FIRM) based on the
   C.   Letter Of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMplacement of fill
                                                       outside the existing
                                                       regulatory floodway. The
                                                       LOMR-F does not change
                                                       the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS
                                                       report.
                                                       A formal review and
                                                       comment as to whether a
                                                       proposed flood
                                                       protection project or
                                                       other project complies
                                                       with the minimum NFIP
                                                       requirements for such
                                                       projects with respect to
                                                       delineation of special
                                                       flood hazard areas. A
                                                       CLOMR does not revise
                                                       the effective Flood
                                                       Insurance Rate Map
   D.    Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOM(FIRM) or Flood
                                                       Insurance Study (FIS).
                                                       Upon submission and
                                                       approval of certified
                                                       as-built documentation,
                                                       a Letter of Map Revision
                                                       (LOMR) may be issued by
                                                       FEMA to revise the
                                                       effective FIRM. Building
                                                       Permits and/or Flood
                                                       Development Permits
                                                       cannot be issued based
                                                       on a CLOMR, because a
                                                       CLOMR does not change
                                                       the NFIP map.
                                                       The lowest floor of the
                                                       lowest enclosed area
                                                       (including basement or
                                                       subgrade crawl space).
                                                       An unfinished or flood
                                                       resistant enclosure,
                                                       usable solely for
                                                       parking of vehicles,
                                                       building access or
                                                       storage in an area other
LOWEST FLOOR:                                          than a basement area is
                                                       not considered a
                                                       building's lowest floor;
                                                       Provided, that such
                                                       enclosure is not built
                                                       so as to render the
                                                       structure in violation
                                                       of the applicable non-
                                                       elevation design
                                                       requirements of 44 CFR
                                                       section 60.3 and this
                                                       article.
                                                       The act of ongoing
                                                       upkeep of existing
                                                       structures required to
                                                       keep channels in a
                                                       condition adequate to
                                                       support the conveyance
                                                       of irrigation and
                                                       drainage water (this
                                                       does not include the
                                                       complete replacement or
                                                       substantial replacement
                                                       of an existing
                                                       structure). Maintenance
                                                       is further defined as
                                                       the care or upkeep of
                                                       channels, works,
MAINTENANCE:                                           appurtenances,
                                                       easements, utility
                                                       corridors and property;
                                                       to keep in an existing
                                                       state, specified state
                                                       of repair, and
                                                       efficiency; return to a
                                                       former condition,
                                                       elevation, place, and
                                                       position; to preserve
                                                       from failure or decline;
                                                       or repair or renovate so
                                                       as to return it to its
                                                       original condition.
                                                       Maintenance does not
                                                       include dredging as
                                                       defined herein.
 
 
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a
MANUFACTURED   permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
HOME:          foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
               "manufactured home" does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more
HOME PARK OR   manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
               The building value, not including the land value and that of any
MARKET VALUE:  accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value is
               determined by the tax assessed values, unless revised by an independent
               certified appraisal (paid for by the property owner).
               For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the start of
               construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
               management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
NEW            subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction started
CONSTRUCTION:  after April 4, 1984 (entry into the NFHP), and before the effective
               start date of this floodplain management article is subject to the
               article in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the start
               of construction was within one hundred and eighty (180) days of permit
               issuance.
               A building, other than a residential structure or dwelling, or parts
NONRESIDENTIAL thereof, that is open to the public or for private use. The term
STRUCTURE:     nonresidential structure includes, but is not limited to: structures
               used for places of assembly, education, business, maintenance, storage,
               manufacturing, and government.
               The regular and reoccurring performance of typical work by an
OPERATION:     irrigation or drainage entity including, but not limited to: the
               delivery or drainage of water, measurement of water, and adjustment of
               irrigation and drainage works and all related appurtenances.
 
 
             A vehicle that is:
             A.   Built on a single chassis;
             B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
RECREATIONAL horizontal projection;
VEHICLE:     C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck;
             and
             D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
             living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY   See FLOODWAY.
FLOODWAY:
             The restoration to good or sound conditions of any part of an existing structure,
REPAIR:      channel, channel bank, or service road for the purpose of maintenance (this does
             not include the complete replacement or substantial replacement of an existing
             structure). Repair does not include dredging as defined herein.
             A building used as a dwelling for one or more persons. The term residential
             structure includes, but is not limited to: houses, family daycare homes, group
RESIDENTIAL  daycare facilities, apartment buildings, lodging homes, dormitories, hotels,
STRUCTURE:   motels, hospitals, sanatoriums, and nursing homes. The term residential structure
             also includes accessory use areas used in conjunction with, and an integral part
             of, a residential structure.
RIPERIAN     The land that directly abuts a natural body of water such as a river, lake,
AREA:        stream, creek, or coastal body of water and is within twenty-five feet (25') of
             the Floodway Boundary.
             The areas in Ada County in the flood plain subject to a one percent (1%) or
SPECIAL      greater chance of flooding in any given year. For purposes of these regulations,
FLOOD HAZARD the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase
AREA (SFHA): "area of special flood hazard." It also includes foothill or hillside tributary
             floodplain; and other areas determined by the floodplain administrator to be a
             hazard to public health, safety, and welfare due to flooding.
 
 
                         Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
                         the building permit was issued, provided the actual
                         start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
                         rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
                         improvement was within one hundred and eighty (180)
                         days of the permit date. The actual start means either
                         the first placement of permanent construction of a
                         structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
                         footings, the installation of piles, the construction
                         of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
                         excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
                         a foundation. Permanent construction does not include
START OF CONSTRUCTION:   land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
                         filling; nor does it include the installation of
                         streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
                         excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
                         foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor
                         does it include the installation on the property of
                         accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not
                         occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
                         structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual
                         start of construction means the first alteration of
                         any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
                         a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
                         external dimensions of the building.
                         A walled and/or roofed building, including a gas or
STRUCTURE:               liquid storage tank that is principally above ground,
                         as well as a manufactured home.
                         Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
                         the cost of restoring the structure to its before-
                         damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
                         (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred.
                         See definition of "substantial improvement."
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE (SD): Substantial damage also means flood-related damage
                         sustained by a structure on two separate occasions
                         during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of
                         repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the
                         average, equals or exceeds twenty-five percent (25%)
                         of the market value of the structure before the damage
                         occurred.
 
 
            Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
            structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
            value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement.
            This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage,"
            regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
SUBSTANTIAL include either:
IMPROVEMENT A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
(SI):       state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
            identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
            necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
            B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the alteration will
            not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and
            the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this article.
            The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with this
            article. A structure or other development without the Finished Construction
VIOLATION:  Elevation Certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
            required in 44 CFR sections 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4),
            or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
            provided. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; amd. Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
 
8-3F-6: PROCESS:
   A.   Approval: Prior to the commencement of any development within any
special flood hazard area, the property owner shall obtain approval of a
floodplain permit and comply with the applicable general regulations and
standards identified in sections
8-3F-7  and 8-3F-8 of this article.
   B.   Application: An application and fees, as set forth in chapter 7,
article A of this title, shall be submitted to the development services
department on forms provided by the department along with all required
information identified on the applicable floodplain checklist. The floodplain
administrator will review the request and determine if additional information,
certificates, or studies are required prior to commencement of development or
manufactured home placement.
   C.   Permit Duration: The approval of a floodplain permit shall be limited
to a two (2) year period in which the applicant and/or property owner shall
complete the proposed improvements to the satisfaction of the floodplain
administrator.
   D.   Certificates And Studies: An applicant and/or owner may be required to
submit the following certifications and/or studies with the floodplain
application, or subsequent to floodplain application submission:
      1.   Grading Plan: Is considered development and may not take place on
property within a special flood hazard area unless a floodplain permit is
issued. All grading shall be done so as to minimize impacts within all special
flood hazard areas. Floodwater carrying capacity shall not be diminished and
adjacent properties shall not be adversely impacted by the proposed
improvements. Minor landscape features (cumulative fill or excavation less than
ten (10) cubic yards) and at grade driveways, at grade private roads, and at
grade parking lots shall be exempt from the LOMA process. Depending on the
extent and nature of the grading and landscape features, a FES may be required.
Grading plans shall be in conformance with section
8-4A-24  of this title.
      2.   Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33): If the elevation of a
structure is required to be certified in accord with specific standards
identified in section
8-3F-8  of this article, a completed construction drawings elevation
certificate signed by a professional engineer or surveyor licensed in the state
of Idaho shall be submitted and approved by the floodplain administrator prior
to issuance of any building permit. Once the lowest floor (including basement
and/or crawl space) of the proposed structure or substantial improvement is
constructed, a completed finished construction elevation certificate signed by
a professional engineer or surveyor licensed in the state of Idaho shall be
submitted and be approved by the floodplain administrator prior to issuance of
a certificate of occupancy and/or prior to final building permit inspection
approval.
      3.   Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34): If certification is
required to demonstrate that a non-residential, accessory or agricultural
structure has been floodproofed, in accord with specific standards identified
in section
8-3F-8  of this article, documentation demonstrating compliance with the
specific standards, shall be submitted with the floodplain application and
approved by the floodplain administrator prior to the issuance of a building
permit, and/or zoning certificate. A completed floodproofing certificate,
prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho, shall be
submitted and be approved by the floodplain administrator prior to issuance of
a certificate of occupancy or prior to final building permit inspection
approval:
         a.   Only accessory or agricultural structures under one thousand
(1,000) square feet in size are permitted to be wet-floodproofed.
         b.   Electrical, mechanical and plumbing facilities comply with
general regulations identified in section
8-3F-7  of this article.
         c.   If wet-floodproofing to allow floodwater to enter the structure,
the enclosed area(s) shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters and complies with the following:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings shall be provided that have a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
(1') above the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately below the
opening, measured from highest adjacent grade or floor.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. Openings shall meet the minimum FEMA standards for number
(quantity), size and type.
            (4)   Certification shall be submitted that documents the amount of
flood opening each flood opening provides.
         d.   If dry-floodproofing to restrict floodwater to enter the
structure, the following standards apply:
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement and/or crawl space),
together with attendant electrical, mechanical and plumbing facilities, shall
be floodproofed so that below one and a half feet (1.5') above the BFE the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water.
            (2)   The proposed structure shall be watertight and shall have
structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads
and effects of buoyancy.
            (3)   The proposed design shall be certified by a professional
engineer licensed in the state of Idaho and the design and methods of
construction shall be in accord with accepted standards of practice for meeting
regulations of this section based on their development and/or review of the
structural design, specifications, and plans.
      4.   Flood Studies:
         a.   Flood Elevation Study (FES): If required by the specific
standards identified in this article, a FES, prepared by a professional
engineer licensed in the state of Idaho, must be approved by the floodplain
administrator prior to the commencement of any development. The study shall be
submitted electronically and in paper form to include:
            (1)   A title;
            (2)   A table of contents;
            (3)   The location and description of the property;
            (4)   A scope of work;
            (5)   Analysis and documentation of methods and procedures to
determine the flood elevation and any additional information required by this
article;
            (6)   A discussion of the proposed use in the existing floodplain
and the surrounding land uses;
            (7)   A discussion of floodplain regulation compliance; and
            (8)   All other items identified on the floodplain checklist as may
be applicable and/or as may be required by the floodplain administrator.
         b.   Hydraulic & Hydrology Analysis with No-Rise Certification: If
hydraulic and hydrology analysis with no-rise certification is required by any
of the specific standards contained in this article, an analysis and
certification shall be prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the
state of Idaho and shall be submitted with the floodplain application. The
documentation shall include a FES, a completed floodplain checklist, and all
other supporting technical data which confirms that the proposed development
will not result in an increase of the base flood elevation (BFE) for the full
cross section of SFHA. The analysis and certification must be approved by the
floodplain administrator prior to commencement of any development.
         c.   The floodplain administrator will not require a CLOMR be
submitted to FEMA if the Hydraulic and Hydrology Analysis can demonstrate a No-
Rise condition when comparing the pre and post development floodway elevations.
However, a post construction LOMR must be submitted to document the change to
the SFHA.
      5.   Letter Of Map Change (LOMC): If a change or revision of a FIRM is
warranted by any of the specific standards identified in this article, the
applicant and/or owner shall submit a request to FEMA for an LOMC. The
applicant and/or owner may submit the request to FEMA online themselves or
retain a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho to prepare and
submit the amendment and/or revision request to FEMA. A copy of the official
amendment and/or revision letter signed by FEMA shall be submitted to the
floodplain administrator in accord with the time frames specified in the
specific standards contained in this article. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; amd. Ord.
914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-7: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   The following general regulations are applicable to all development
within any special flood hazard area:
      1.   Minimize Flood Damage Potential: Methods and practices shall be used
that minimize flood damage potential to all new development and that do not
increase the flood damage potential to other properties.
      2.   Flood Resistant Materials: All new development shall use materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      3.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure.
      4.   Drainage: Drainage practices that minimize exposure to flood hazards
and that maintain the original or historic drainage patterns to the greatest
extent possible shall be used.
      5.   Grading: Grading is considered development and may not take place on
property within a special flood hazard area unless a floodplain permit is
issued. All grading shall be done so as to minimize impacts within all special
flood hazard areas. Floodwater carrying capacity shall not be diminished and
adjacent properties shall not be adversely impacted by the proposed
improvements. Minor landscape features (cumulative fill or excavation less than
then (10) cubic yards) and at grade driveways, at grade private roads, and at
grade parking lots shall be exempt from the LOMA process. Depending on the
extent and nature of the grading and landscape features, a FES may be required.
      6.   Electrical, Mechanical And Plumbing Equipment/Facilities:
Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities shall be elevated to at least one and a half feet
(1.5') above the BFE.
      7.   Utility Work:
         a.   All utility work shall use designs, materials, and construction
methods that preclude failure due to flooding and assure continued service
during flood events.
         b.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
         c.   New and replacement sewage treatment infrastructure and sewage
collection and disposal systems shall be designed to eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      8.   Subdivisions:
         a.   All subdivisions shall be consistent in design and construction
with the need to minimize flood damage and shall be reasonably safe from
flooding.
         b.   Public utilities and facilities including, but not limited to:
sewer, gas, electrical, telephone, and water systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage and certified by a professional engineer
licensed in the state of Idaho.
         c.   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
damaged. The following must be placed up on the Final Plat:
            (1)   All the SFHA boundary lines must be drawn on the plat.
            (2)   Plat notes designating:
               a.   FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, and 160xxxxxxE, etc.;
               b.   FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year;
               c.   Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, A Zone AO, Zone,
AH, Zone D, etc.;
               d.   Base Flood Elevation(s): AE       .0 ft., etc.; and
               e.   The following statement: "Flood Zones are subject to change
by FEMA and all land within a floodway or floodplain is regulated by section 8-
3F of Ada County Code."
               d.   A FES shall be done to determine the BFE for the
subdivision if it is located in an A Zone. The applicant shall then submit a
LOMR to update the map with the information from the FES.
               e.   If a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) is
required, the approval of the CLOMR must be obtained prior to any site
improvements and approval of the LOMR must be obtained prior to approval of the
Final Plat.
      9.   Watercourse Alteration/Relocation: If a watercourse is to be altered
or relocated, the following shall all be submitted by the permit applicant
prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit:
         a.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
         b.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream. This would include
engineering showing:
            (1)   Prior conditions (FIRM Model conditions);
            (2)   Existing conditions; and
            (3)   Post-construction conditions.
         c.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation;
         d.   An Idaho Stream Channel Alteration Permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the floodplain administrator.
      No alteration or relocation of a watercourse shall be permitted if it
diminishes the floodway and floodplain carrying capacity of the watercourse.
This includes floodplain and bank restoration projects.
      10.   Substantial Damage: A structure, regardless of whether it was
covered by flood insurance, shall be considered to have sustained substantial
damage if it meets either of the substantial damage definitions in section
8-3F-5 of this article. Work on structures that have been substantially damaged
is considered to be a substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair
work performed, and must comply with the applicable general regulations and
standards in this section and section
8-3F-8 of this article.
      11.   Accessory And Agricultural Structures: An accessory or agricultural
structure as defined in this title may be granted relief from elevation or dry
floodproofing requirements if the following standards are met:
         a.   The structure shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet or less
in size.
         b.   The structure shall represent a minimal investment, meaning the
proposed structure's estimated square foot construction cost as determined by
the floodplain administrator shall not be greater than ten percent (10%) of the
total market value of the property on which the structure is located;
         c.   The structure is not used for human habitation;
         d.   The structure is constructed of flood resistant materials;
         e.   The structure is constructed and placed on the property to offer
the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         f.   The structure is firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         g.   The structure's mechanical and utility equipment, if any, are
elevated or floodproofed one and a half feet (1.5') above BFE or two feet (2')
above the highest adjacent grade where BFE has not been established; and
         h.   The structure meets the standards of section
8-3F-6D3.
      12.   Roads and Driveways: Driveways, roads, bridges, low-water
crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel, which
encroach into the SFHA shall be designed to:
         a.   Be elevated at least one and a half feet (1.5') above the
established base flood elevation;
         b.   Allow flood water to pass under so that it does not act as a
check dam.
      13.   Riparian Areas: Since riparian areas provide critical flood
management and fish and wildlife habitat, the following provisions apply for
any development in the SFHA and riparian areas as defined:
         a.   Preservation or restoration of the inherent natural
characteristics of the river and creeks within the floodplain;
         b.   Preservation of riparian vegetation and wildlife habitat, if any,
along the stream bank and within the required minimum twenty-five foot (25')
setback of the floodway boundary or riparian zone;
         c.   No development other than development by a public entity, for
public use or required for emergency access shall occur within the twenty-five
foot (25') setback of the floodway boundary with the exception of approved
stream stabilization work;
         d.   Plan and time frame shall be provided for restoration of riparian
vegetation damaged as a result of the work done; and
         e.   New or replacement planting and vegetation shall include
plantings that are low growing and have dense root systems for the purpose of
stabilizing stream banks and repairing damage previously done to riparian
vegetation. Examples of such plantings include: red osier dogwood, common
chokecherry, serviceberry, elderberry, river birch, skunk bush sumac, Bebb's
willow, Drummond's willow, little wild rose, gooseberry, and honeysuckle.
      14.   Compensatory Storage: New development shall not reduce the
effective flood storage volume of the Regulatory Floodplain and SFHA. A
development proposal shall provide compensatory storage if grading or other
activity eliminates any effective flood storage volume. Compensatory storage
shall:
         a.   Provide equivalent volume at equivalent elevations to that being
displaced. For this purpose, "equivalent elevation" means having similar
relationship to ordinary high water and the best available one hundred (100)
year water surface profiles;
         b.   Be hydraulically connected to the source of flooding; and
         c.   Provide compensatory storage in the same construction season as
when the displacement of flood storage volume occurs and before the flood
season begins.
         d.   The newly created storage area shall be graded and vegetated to
allow fish access during flood events without creating fish stranding sites.
      15.   Fences and Walls: Table 8-3F-1 lists the fences and walls allowed
or prohibited under this article in the Regulatory Floodplain and SFHA. Allowed
fences and walls must also meet the standards found in section
8-5-3-44 of this title.
Table 8-3F-1: USES OF FENCING/WALLS ALLOWED
Fence Or Wall Type Floodplain Floodway Shallow Sheet Flow Area
                   (A, AE)             (AO)
                   Floodplain                              Shallow Sheet Flow
Fence Or Wall Type (A, AE)             Floodway            Area
                                                           (AO)
                                       Yes, unless the
A                  Yes                 purpose is to       Yes
                                       contain livestock
                                       within a corral
B                  Yes                 Yes, with limited   Yes
                                       cross fencing
C                  Case by case review of design required.
                   Yes, if elevated to Case by case review Yes, if elevated to
D                  or above the flood  of design required. or above the flood
                   height.1                                height.1
                   Yes, if elevated to                     Yes, if elevated to
E                  or above the flood  No                  or above the
                   height.1                                floodheight.1
                                                           Yes, if elevated to
F                  Case by case review No                  or above the flood
                   of design required.                     height1, or adequate
                                                           openings provided
A.    "Open" barbed or barbless wire. For floodplain management purposes,
barbed and/or barbless wire will be considered "open" if there is no more than
one horizontal strand per foot of height1 and no more than one vertical wire or
post every six feet (6').
B.   "Open" pipe or rail fencing (e.g. corrals). For floodplain management
purposes, pipe/rail fencing will be considered open if the horizontal pipes/
rails occupy less than ten percent (10%) of the area fenced and posts are
spaced no closer than eight feet (8').
C.   Collapsible fencing.
D.   Other wire, pipe, or rail type fencing (e.g. field fence, chicken wire,
etc.) which does not meet the "open" requirements described above.
E.   Chain link fencing.
F.   Continuous wood or vinyl fencing or masonry walls.
 
Note:
    1.   Individual horizontal wire strands can be placed below the flood
height provided 1they are spaced no closer than six inches (6") apart.
Individual vertical wire strands can be placed below the flood height provided
they are spaced no closer than six feet (6') apart. For wire, pipe, or rail
fencing that does not meet the "open" requirements, and for wood or masonry
walls/fences, the bottom of the wall/fence must be elevated to or above the
elevation of the water during the one hundred (100) year flood event. Wood and
masonry fencing/walls do not need to be elevated if they provide enough
openings at their bases to allow the free flow of floodwaters without
increasing the depth of water at all.
      16.   Functionally Dependent Use: Functionally dependent uses shall
follow the standards of this article, provided that the use does not cause a
rise in the one hundred (100) year flood level (BFE) within a regulatory
floodway, and the structure and other development must be protected by methods
that minimize flood damages.
      17.   General Irrigation Floodplain Development (GIFD) Permit: There are
three (3) categories of GIFD permits as outlined by Idaho Department of Water
Resources (IDWR). The floodplain administrator will determine which category
the proposed work falls under based on the following criteria:
         a.   Non-development activities requiring no permit: Consistent with
Idaho Code sections 46-1021 and 46-1022, operation, cleaning, maintenance or
repair of any ditch, canal, lateral, drain, diversion structure or other
irrigation or drainage works, do not constitute development under Idaho law and
therefore do not require either a GIFD permit or an floodplain permit. Examples
of activities and projects that do not require floodplain permitting.
            (1)   General farming, pasture, horticultural and forestry
activities that do not involve earthwork that permanently alter the topography
or any clearing/grubbing of an area.
            (2)   Grading of existing roads or easements along or near channels
and within the SFHA, when the grading does not add fill within the regulatory
floodway or SFHA.
            (3)   Maintenance of underground utilities (work must not
permanently alter topography).
            (4)   In-kind replacement of existing piers or posts supporting a
conforming deck.
            (5)   Activities associated with land-surface construction
stormwater Best Management Practices ("BMP"), when the measures are temporary
in nature (i.e. not in place for longer than one hundred and eighty (180) days)
or do not increase the BFE. Examples of stormwater BMP activities that do not
require a permit include the following: dust control; materials and equipment
covers; mulching; geotextile fabrics; matting; bio-filter bags; fiber rolls;
silt fences; vegetative buffer strips; temporary swales; and temporary berms.
         b.   GIFD permit eligible activities: Low-to-no impact irrigation and
drainage development activities or uses in the floodplain which inherently do
not increase the BFE. GIFD permits apply to all qualifying activities within
the spatial extents of an irrigation delivery or drainage system and within the
regulatory floodway or SFHA, over a predetermined period of time, not to exceed
five years.
            (1)   Process for GFID approval:
               a.   Initial consultation, in-person meeting between the
floodplain administrator and the irrigation entity.
               b.   Submittal by the irrigation entity of the following
materials prior to consultation visit:
                  i.   Service area map with delineated activities;
                  ii.   A timeline identifying the sequence and timing that
proposed activities will occur (not to exceed five years); and
                  iii.   Supporting documentation, as needed.
         c.   The floodplain administrator shall timely review submitted
material and ask for additional documentation as needed.
         d.   The floodplain administrator shall timely review submitted
material and identify any activities that require an individual permit.
         e.   The floodplain administrator shall issue a GIFD permit.
         f.   The irrigation entity shall notify the floodplain administrator
when changes to activities permitted under a GIFD are anticipated.
      (2)   Examples of activities that require a GFID:
         a.   Dredging and grading of irrigation and drainage channels, when
the fill from dredging or grading is not deposited on the banks of channels or
anywhere within the regulatory floodway or SFHA for longer than ten (10) days.
         b.   Seasonal grading within natural stream channels to check or
direct water into irrigation facilities (i.e. earthen "push- up dams" and "wing
dams").
         c.   Deposition of fill within the SFHA for less than ten (10) days.
After then (10) days, deposited fill must be removed from the SFHA, or graded
and compacted to existing grade within ± 0.2 feet. Deposition of fill includes
deposition of material resulting from grading or excavating irrigation or
drainage channels. Deposition of fill within the mapped floodway requires an
individual permit.
         d.   Construction of new underground utilities that do not permanently
alter the existing grade elevations by ± 0.5 feet. Excess soil from new pipes
larger than two feet (2') in diameter must be disposed of outside the
regulatory floodway and SFHA.
         e.   In-kind replacement of irrigation and drainage works or
components including but not limited to control gates or head gates, measuring
devices and their housing structures/stilling wells, culverts, pumps, pipes,
flumes, siphons and similar works. GIFD permits cannot authorize the In-kind
replacement of dams or bridge structures.
         f.   New driveways, trails, sidewalks, roads and streets constructed
completely at-or-below existing grade.
         g.   Armoring, stabilizing, securing, or in-kind replacement of
existing infrastructure within the channel banks (such as bridge piers, sewer/
utility supports and storm water/sewer drainage outfalls/headwalls) when the
dimensions (bank slopes, channel location, channel elevation) of the channel
are not altered. This should not involve replacement with larger or additional
above ground infrastructure.
   B.   Development activities requiring an floodplain development permit: A
floodplain development permit is required for all other permitted activities
and projects within the regulatory floodway and SFHA that do not meet the
requirements of a GIFD permit. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; amd. Ord. 848, 12-9-2015;
amd. Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-8: STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
8-3F-8-1: LAND USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   AE, AH, AO, A, and D Zones and the Regulatory Floodway: Despite any
other regulations of this title, Critical Facilities and the following uses,
including any new construction or substantial improvements to such uses, are
prohibited in the regulatory floodway, AE, AH, AO, A, or D zone where the base
flood elevations have been determined or estimated:
   Explosive manufacturing.
   Flammable substance storage.
   Foster home, group.
   Gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales.
   Junkyard or automobile wrecking yard.
   Manufacture and/or storage of materials that are buoyant, flammable, toxic,
radioactive or explosive or may present a hazard to public health or safety in
time of flooding.
   Manufacture of electronic or electrical products.
   Manufacture or processing of hazardous chemicals or gases.
   Manufactured home storage.
   Portable classroom.
   Sanitary landfill, restricted.
   School, vocational or trade.
   Soil or water remediation.
   Tannery.
   Vehicle impound yard.
   Stormwater Facilities Sanitary Sewer Facilities. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord.
914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-8-2: A AND D ZONES:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   All development within an A zone or a D zone shall: a) be subject to
the procedural requirements of sections
8-3F-6 and
8-3F-7 of this article, as applicable; and b) require determination of the base
flood elevation (except for accessory or agricultural structures that meet the
requirements of section
8-3F-7A11 of this article).
      2.   Drainage: Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall
be provided in an A zone or a D zone to guide floodwaters around and away from
proposed structures.
      3.   Grading: Any site work in excess of ten (10) cubic yards of cut or
fill will require a detailed grading permit. All grading shall be done so as to
minimize impacts and maintain compensatory storage within all special flood
hazard areas. Depending on the extent and nature of the grading, a FES may be
required along with an LOMC.
   B.   New Development And/Or Substantial Improvement: All new development,
and/or substantial improvement of both residential and nonresidential
structures located within an A zone or a D zone, except those granted relief
per subsection
8-3F-7 of this article, shall comply with the following:
      1.   Base Flood Elevation (BFE) Establishment: If BFE data has not
already been established within an A zone or a D zone, BFE data shall be
established by the following methods:
         a.   The floodplain administrator may require applicants to submit
information including, but not limited to, historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding and/or any other available data. The applicant
shall propose a BFE based on the available data. The floodplain administrator
shall concur with the proposed BFE or provide justification or additional
information to support a different BFE. Prior to issuance of any building
permit, an LOMC shall be prepared as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D4 of this article, submitted to and approved by FEMA.
         b.   If the flood data sources in subsection B.1.a of this section are
not available to establish a BFE to the satisfaction of the floodplain
administrator, an FES as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D4 of this article, shall be submitted to and approved by the floodplain
administrator prior to commencement of any development. Prior to issuance of
any building permit, an LOMC shall be prepared as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D5 of this article, submitted to and approved by FEMA.
      2.   Residential Structure: Once BFE data is established, new
construction and/or substantial improvements of a residential structure shall
comply with the applicable standards of section
8-3F-8-3 or
8-3F-8-4 of this article.
      3.   Nonresidential Structure: Once BFE data is established, new
construction and/or substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial, or
other nonresidential structure shall comply with the applicable standards of
section
8-3F-8-3 or
8-3F-8-4 of this article.
   C.   Subdivision And/Or Manufactured Home Park: An FES, as set forth in
subsections
8-3F-6D4 and
8-3F-7A8 of this article, shall be submitted concurrently with an application
for a subdivision or manufactured home park within an A zone or a D zone. The
applicant and/or owner shall submit a signed copy of an LOMC prior to approval
of the final plat or prior to issuance of any building permit within a
subdivision or manufactured home park.
   D.   Manufactured: A manufactured home placed within an A zone or a D zone
shall comply with the applicable standards of section
8-3F-8-3 or
8-3F-8-4 of this article.
   E.   Recreational Vehicle: Any recreational vehicle placed on property
within an A zone or a D zone shall meet the following additional standards:
      1.   The recreational vehicle shall be on site for fewer than one hundred
and eighty (180) consecutive days; and
      2.   The recreational vehicle shall be fully licensed and ready for
highway use, be on its wheels or jacking system, be attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and have no
permanently attached additions; or
      3.   The recreational vehicle shall meet the anchoring requirements set
forth in subsection D of this section.
   F.   Pit, Mine Or Quarry: Approval of an FES as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D4 of this article, shall be required as a condition of approval for any
proposed pit, mine or quarry. The FES shall demonstrate that the extraction
site will be designed to avoid river avulsion. The FES must be approved prior
to commencement of the use or breaking ground. Gravel mining operations or
excavations are not permitted within one hundred feet (100') of the top of
river bank regardless of floodway or floodplain designation. Material
stockpiles and permanently installed structures shall not be located within the
regulatory floodway. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; amd. Ord. 848, 12-9-2015; Ord. 914,
6-10-2020)
 
8-3F-8-3: AE AND AH ZONES:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Drainage: Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall
be provided in an AE zone or an AH zone to guide floodwaters around and away
from proposed structures.
      2.   Grading: Any site work in excess of ten (10) cubic yards of cut or
fill will require a detailed grading permit. All grading shall be done so as to
minimize impacts and maintain compensatory storage within all special flood
hazard areas. Depending on the extent and nature of the grading, a FES may be
required along with an LOMC.
   B.   Residential Structure: All new construction and/or substantial
improvement of residential structures proposed within an AE zone or an AH zone
must comply with the following standards:
      1.   Lowest Floor Elevation: Residential structures shall have the lowest
floor (including basement and/or crawl space) elevated to at least one and a
half feet (1.5') above BFE, confirmed by elevation certificates as set forth in
subsection
8-3F-6D2 of this article.
   C.   Nonresidential Structure: All new construction and/or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential (accessory
or agricultural) structure within an AE or an AH zone shall either be elevated
or floodproofed in compliance with the following standards:
      1.   Elevation: If the structure is not going to be floodproofed,
elevation certificates are required as set forth in subsection 8-3F-6D2 of this
article that certify compliance with the following standards:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement and/or crawl space) shall be
elevated to at least one and a half feet (1.5') above BFE.
      2.   Floodproofing: The structure shall meet the floodproofing standards
of subsection
8-3F-6D3.
   D.   Subdivision And/Or Manufactured Home Park: An FES, as detailed in
subsections
8-3F-6D4 and
8-3F-7A8 of this article, shall be submitted concurrently with an application
for a subdivision or manufactured home park within an AE zone or an AH zone.
The applicant and/or owner shall submit a signed copy of an LOMC prior to
approval of the final plat or prior to issuance of any building permit within a
subdivision or manufactured home park.
   E.   Manufactured Home: A manufactured home placed or substantially improved
within an AH zone or an AE zone requires elevation certificates as set forth in
subsection
8-3F-6D2 of this article that demonstrate compliance with the following
standards:
      1.   A manufactured home shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. Said methods and practices shall include the
anchoring of the home to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movements.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use of over the
top or frame ties to ground anchors in addition to any applicable anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces. Other anchoring techniques are
described in the FEMA publication "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood
Hazard Areas"; and
      2.   A manufactured home shall be elevated so the lowest floor (including
basement and/or crawl space) is elevated to at least one and a half feet (1.5')
above BFE confirmed by an elevation certificate.
   F.   Recreational Vehicle: Any recreational vehicle placed on property
within an AE zone or an AH zone shall meet the following additional standards:
      1.   The recreational vehicle shall be on site for fewer than one hundred
and eighty (180) consecutive days; and
      2.   The recreational vehicle shall be fully licensed and ready for
highway use, be on its wheels or jacking system, be attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and have no
permanently attached additions; or
      3.   The recreational vehicle shall meet the elevation and anchoring
requirements set forth in subsection E.1 of this section.
   G.   Pit, Mine Or Quarry: Approval of an FES as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D4a of this article, shall be required as a condition of approval for any
proposed pit, mine or quarry. The FES shall demonstrate that the extraction
site will be designed to avoid river avulsion. The FES must be approved prior
to commencement of the use or breaking ground. Gravel mining operations or
excavations are not permitted within one hundred feet (100') of the top of
river bank regardless of floodway or floodplain designation. Material
stockpiles and permanently installed structures shall not be located within the
regulatory floodway. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; amd. Ord. 848, 12-9-2015; Ord. 914,
6-10-2020)
8-3F-8-4: AO ZONE:
An area within the flood fringe, shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
as an AO or an AH zone, susceptible to shallow flooding with depths range from
one (1') to three feet (3'). See - AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING or AO ZONE.
   A.   General Standards - AO Zone:
      1.   Drainage: Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall
be provided in an AO zone to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      2.   Grading: Any site work in excess of ten (10) cubic yards of cut or
fill will require a detailed grading permit. All grading shall be done so as to
minimize impacts and maintain compensatory storage within all special flood
hazard areas. Depending on the extent and nature of the grading, an FES may be
required along with an LOMC.
      3.   Hazardous Velocities: Where hazardous velocities are noted on the
FIRM, proper construction techniques and methods shall be used to mitigate the
effects of the velocities.
   B.   Residential Structure: All new construction and/or substantial
improvement of a residential structure proposed within an AO zone requires
elevation certificates as set forth in subsection 8-3F-6D2 of this article that
certify compliance with the following standards:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures within AO zones shall have the lowest floor (including basement and/
or crawl space) elevated above the highest adjacent grade of the building site
by a height equal to the depth number specified on the FIRM plus one foot (1'),
or at least two feet (2'), if no depth number is specified. Where appropriate,
such structures shall be elevated above the crown of the nearest roadway by a
height equal to the depth number specified on the FIRM plus one foot (1').
   C.   Nonresidential Structure: All new construction and/or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential (accessory
or agricultural) structure within an AO zone shall either be elevated or
floodproofed in compliance with the following standards:
      1.   Elevation: If the structure is not going to be elevated, elevation
certificates are required as set forth in subsection 8-3F-6D2 of this article
that certify compliance with the following standards:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement and/or crawl space) shall be
elevated above the highest adjacent grade of the building site by a height
equal to the depth number specified on the FIRM plus one foot (1'), or at least
two feet (2'), if no depth number is specified.
      2.   Floodproofing: If the structure is not going to be floodproofed, a
floodproof certificate is required as set forth in subsection 8-3F-6D3 of this
article that certify compliance with the following standards:
         a.   For Dry-Floodproofing: The lowest floor (including basement and/
or crawl space), together with attendant electrical, mechanical and plumbing
facilities, shall be completely floodproofed to or above a height equal to the
depth number specified on the FIRM plus one foot (1') so that any space below
that level is watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water.
         b.   For Wet-Floodproofing: The electrical, mechanical and plumbing
facilities shall be completely floodproofed to or above a height equal to the
depth number specified on the FIRM plus one foot (1').
   D.   Subdivision And/Or Manufactured Home Park: An FES, as set forth in
subsection
8-3F-6D4 and
8-3F-7A8 of this article, shall be submitted concurrently with an application
for a subdivision or manufactured home park within an AO zone. The applicant
and/or owner shall submit a signed copy of an LOMC prior to approval of the
final plat or prior to issuance of any building permit within a subdivision or
manufactured home park.
   E.   Manufactured Home: A manufactured home placed or substantially improved
within an AO zone requires elevation certificates as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D2 of this article that demonstrate compliance with the following
standards:
      1.   A manufactured home shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. Said methods and practices shall include the
anchoring of the home to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movements.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use of over the
top or frame ties to ground anchors in addition to any applicable anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces. Other anchoring techniques are
described in the FEMA publication "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood
Hazard Areas"; and
      2.   A manufactured home shall be elevated so the lowest floor (including
basement and/or crawl space) is elevated above the highest adjacent grade of
the building site by a height equal to the depth number specified on the FIRM
plus one foot (1'), or at least two feet (2'), if no depth number is specified,
as confirmed by an elevation certificate as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D2 of this article.
   F.   Pit, Mine Or Quarry: Approval of an FES as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D4a of this article, shall be required as a condition of approval for a
pit, mine or quarry. The FES shall demonstrate that the extraction site will be
designed to avoid river avulsion. The FES must be approved prior to
commencement of the use or breaking ground. Gravel mining operations or
excavations are not permitted within one hundred feet (100') of the top of
river bank regardless of floodway or floodplain designation. Material
stockpiles and permanently installed structures shall not be located within the
regulatory floodway. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-8-5: REGULATORY FLOODWAY:
Standards: The following standards shall apply to all uses and development
within the regulatory floodway:
   A.   New Development Or Substantial Improvements: New development or
substantial improvements are not allowed within a regulatory floodway.
Provided, however, if encroachment is unavoidable, the new construction or
substantial improvement of residential, commercial, or industrial uses are not
allowed in the regulatory floodway. If site work encroachment is unavoidable, a
Hydraulic & Hydrology Analysis with No-Rise Certification as detailed in
subsection
8-3F-6D4b of this article shall be provided by a professional engineer licensed
in the state of Idaho demonstrating that the encroachment will not result in
any increase in base flood levels (BFE) during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
   B.   Letter Of Map Change (LOMC): If a change or revision of a FIRM is
warranted by any of the specific standards identified in this article, the
applicant and/or owner shall submit a request to FEMA for an LOMC. The
applicant and/or owner may submit the request to FEMA online themselves or
retain a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho to prepare and
submit the amendment and/or revision request to FEMA. A copy of the official
amendment and/or revision letter signed by FEMA shall be submitted to the
floodplain administrator prior to issuance of a building permit.
   C.   Hydraulic and Hydrology Analysis with No-Rise Certification: If no rise
certification for site work encroachment is provided and approved, pursuant to
subsection A.1 of this section, all work shall comply with the applicable
standards for uses in the flood fringe detailed in sections
8-3F-8-2 through
8-3F-8-4, inclusive, of this article.
   D.   Uses In A Foothill Or Hillside Tributary: In addition to the standards
above, uses proposed in a foothill or other hillside tributary floodplain as
determined by the Ada County engineer shall also meet the standards set forth
in section
8-3F-8-6 of this article.
   E.   Pit, Mine Or Quarry: Pit, mine or quarry operations are prohibited
within the floodway. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-8-6: FOOTHILL OR HILLSIDE TRIBUTARY FLOODPLAIN:
   A.   Development on properties that include any portion of a foothill or
hillside tributary floodplain shall provide for channel stabilization and bank
stabilization or be set back from the edge of the floodplain sufficient to
protect the use and floodplain from flood related erosion. Such measures shall
be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho to be
effective for the flood flows and velocities anticipated at the site as
determined through the completion of an FES as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D4 of this article.
   B.   Transportation routes shall not be allowed within areas determined to
be floodways except as necessary to cross the floodway where no reasonable
alternative exists. Bridges that cross foothill or hillside tributary
floodplains shall have all horizontal bridge support members elevated to at
least one foot (1') above BFE, and all supporting members shall be designed to
withstand the flows and velocities of the base flood. If culverts are used, the
roadway surface must be one foot (1') above the determined BFE.
   C.   Check dams shall be designed and certified by a professional engineer
licensed in the state of Idaho and reviewed and approved by the Ada County
engineer to ensure the safety of persons and property that could be affected by
the construction of the check dam. An FES, as set forth in subsection
8-3F-6D4 of this article, shall be completed by a professional engineer
licensed in the state of Idaho on behalf of the applicant/owner, submitted to
and approved by the Ada County engineer as part of the floodplain application.
(Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-9: REQUIRED FINDING:
In order to approve the application, the decision-making body shall find that
the proposed development including, but not limited to, new construction,
placement of manufactured home or substantial improvement, meets the general
regulations and standards as set forth in this article. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014;
Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-10: APPEALS:
   A.   A.   Appeals of determinations made by the floodplain administrator
shall be heard by the board and shall comply with procedures of section
8-7-7 of this title.
   B.   Appeals which allege there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this article, shall be supported by technical and scientific
evidence which shall include, but is not limited to, the following items:
      1.   A copy of the recorded plat map showing the property or, if there is
no recorded plat map, a scaled vicinity map showing the property.
      2.   A topographic map showing ground elevation contours and a line
representing the area subject to inundation by the base flood.
      3.   Certification by a professional engineer licensed in the state of
Idaho of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement and/or crawl
space), the elevation of any fill, the date on which the fill was placed, and
the elevation to which any structure has been floodproofed.
   C.   The board shall base their decision on an appeal on the specific and
technical evidence in the record. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-2020)
8-3F-11: VARIANCES TO FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide a relief from
national flood insurance program standards as they pertain to a physical piece
of property and at the same time not jeopardizing sufficient flood protection.
   B.   Applicability: Variances may be issued consistent with the FEMA
variance and exception regulations as set forth in 44 CFR chapter 1, section
60.6.
   C.   Process:
      1.   An application and fees, as set forth in section
8-7-4 of this title, shall be submitted to the director on forms provided by
the development services department.
      2.   The board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, standards specified in other sections of this article including, but
not limited to, the expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters if applicable, expected at the site.
      3.   The board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as
it deems necessary to further the purposes of this article.
      4.   The board shall apply the findings listed in subsection D of this
section to review the variance.
      5.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that:
         (a)   The issuance of the variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases the risk
to life and property.
   D.   Required Variance Findings:
      1.   The proposed use adequately mitigates any danger that materials may
be swept onto other properties to the injury of others;
      2.   The proposed use adequately mitigates the danger to life and
property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The proposed use minimizes the susceptibility of the proposed
facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the
individual owner;
      4.   The proposed use provides an important service to Ada County;
      5.   The proposed use shall not cause extraordinary public expense in
providing governmental services during post-flood conditions including
maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, water systems, and streets and bridges;
      6.   The proposed use shall not have available alternative locations that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The proposed use provides for safe access to the property in times
of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      8.   The variance shall not conflict with existing local laws or
articles;
      9.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard,
to afford relief;
      10.   The variance shall not result in increased flood heights during the
base flood discharge;
      11.   The variance shall not cause fraud on or victimization of the
public; and
      12.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant.
   E.   Required Findings For Historic Structures: In addition to the findings
in subsection D of this section, the following findings are required for
variances for historic structures:
      1.   The proposed repair or rehabilitation of the structure will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure; and
      2.   The variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure. (Ord. 835, 12-3-2014; Ord. 914, 6-10-
2020)
ARTICLE G. BOISE RIVER GREENWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3G-1: Purpose
8-3G-2: Applicability
8-3G-3: Standards
8-3G-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to protect and enhance the important
environmental features of the Boise River, and to protect fish, wildlife, and
recreation resources consistent with the purpose of the "Local Land Use
Planning Act", Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
8-3G-2: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this article shall be applicable to those lands situated
between the Boise River and a line one hundred feet (100') outside of, and
parallel to, the boundary of the Boise River "floodway" as defined in article F
of this chapter. All terms are as defined in section
8-3F-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3G-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   Structures and fences shall have a setback of one hundred feet (100')
from the floodway boundary.
   B.   Development shall minimize the disturbance of natural vegetation within
the Boise River greenway.
   C.   Development within the Boise River greenway shall incorporate
landscaping in all unpaved areas where the natural vegetation has been
disturbed or removed.
   D.   In addition to the requirements of article F of this chapter, and of
section
8-4F-7 of this title, parking areas shall have a minimum five foot (5') screen
between the parking area and the Boise River. Screening materials shall be as
set forth in section
8-4F-5 of this title.
   E.   Additional screening of uses as viewed from the Boise River greenway
may be required consistent with the purpose of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
ARTICLE H. HILLSIDE OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3H-1: Purpose
8-3H-2: Applicability
8-3H-3: Application Requirements
8-3H-4: Process
8-3H-5: Standards
8-3H-6: Required Findings
8-3H-7: Waiver Of Standards
8-3H-8: Engineer Of Record Responsibilities
8-3H-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   To provide the maximum in public safety and welfare in the development
and design of building sites, roadways, and other service amenities;
   B.   To preserve and enhance the hillside landscape by encouraging the
maximum retention of natural features, such as drainage swales, streams,
slopes, ridgelines, crests of hills, rock outcroppings, vistas, and natural
formations;
   C.   To provide safe ingress and egress for vehicular, bicycle, and
pedestrian traffic to and within the hillside areas, while at the same time
minimizing the scarring effects of hillside development; and
   D.   To use to the fullest extent the current understanding of the planning,
design, and engineering professions and the natural sciences including botany,
biology, ecology, soils and geology, to mitigate potential hazards, and to
enhance the existing and future appearance and resources of the hillsides.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3H-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Trail development that does not exceed five feet (5') in width and that
does not exceed three feet (3') cut or three feet (3') fill shall be exempt
from the provisions of this article.
   B.   Except for as allowed in subsection A of this section, the regulations
of this article shall apply to any grading, filling, clearing, or excavation of
any kind where either of the following is present:
      1.   Slopes that exceed fifteen percent (15%); or
      2.   Adverse conditions associated with slope stability, erosion, or
sedimentation are present, as determined by the county engineer.
   C.   The county engineer shall determine when a watercourse shall be
classified as major or minor as used in this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010)
8-3H-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application: An application, as set forth in chapter 7, article A of
this title, shall be submitted to the director on forms provided by the
development services department.
   B.   Preliminary Grading Plan: The preliminary grading plan shall be
designed to ensure that the properties within the development are able to
conform to the requirements of a final grading plan as set forth in section
8-3H-5 of this article. The following items shall be included in the
preliminary grading plan:
      1.   Contour lines at five foot (5') intervals;
      2.   The location of all proposed or existing structures and roads;
      3.   Any areas of cut or fill;
      4.   Any areas with characteristics listed in subsection 8-3H-5B of this
article;
      5.   A narrative indicating how the proposed design complies with the
purpose statement of the hillside overlay district.
   C.   Slope Stabilization And Revegetation Plan And Report: A licensed
landscape design professional shall prepare the slope stabilization and
revegetation plan. The report shall include a complete description of the
existing soils, existing vegetation, the vegetation to be removed and the
method of disposal, the vegetation to be planted, soils amendments and pH
adjustments, and slope stabilization measures to be implemented. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations including
the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality, and fish and
wildlife.
   D.   Engineering Hydrology Report: A professional engineer registered in the
state of Idaho shall complete an engineering hydrology investigation and
report. This individual should be experienced and knowledgeable in the science
of hydrology and in the techniques of hydrologic investigation. This report
shall include the following information:
      1.   An adequate description of the hydrology of the site, conclusions on
the proposed development, and opinions and recommendations covering the
adequacy of sites to be developed. The report shall include results of field
investigations of the site, unless existing information is determined by the
county engineer to be sufficient to satisfy the purpose of this article.
      2.   Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area proposed for
development.
   E.   Soils Engineering Report: Any area proposed for development shall be
investigated to determine the soil characteristics. This report shall include
the following information:
      1.   Data regarding the nature, distribution, strength, pH, and nutrients
of the soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design
criteria for corrective measures, and opinion and recommendations covering the
adequacy of sites to be developed. The report shall include results of field
investigations of the site, unless existing information is determined by the
county engineer to be sufficient to satisfy the purpose of this article.
      2.   The investigation and report shall be completed by a professional
engineer registered in the state. This individual should be experienced and
knowledgeable in the practice of soils mechanics.
      3.   Recommendations included in the report shall be incorporated into
the design plan and specifications.
   F.   Engineering Geology Report: Any area proposed for development shall be
investigated to determine its geological characteristics. This report shall
include the following information:
      1.   A description of the geology of the site, conclusions and
recommendations regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed
development, and the opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of
sites to be developed. The report shall include results of field investigations
of the site, unless existing information is determined by the county engineer
to be sufficient to satisfy the purpose of this article.
      2.   The investigation and report shall be completed by either a
professional geologist registered in the state or by a professional engineer
registered in the state. This individual should be experienced and
knowledgeable in the principles and practices of engineering geology.
      3.   Any area in which the investigation indicates geologic hazards shall
not be developed unless the project engineer can demonstrate conclusively to
the county engineer, based on the required engineering reports, that these
hazards can be overcome in such a manner as to prevent hazard to life or limb,
hazard to property, adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public
way or waterway, and adverse impacts on the natural environment.
      4.   Recommendations included in the report shall be incorporated into
the design plan and specifications.
   G.   Visual Impact Report: A visual impact report shall be prepared by a
licensed design professional and shall be submitted with the development
application. The report shall include the following information:
      1.   The view from key vantage points along public roadways or public
viewing areas that depict the existing view (prior to development) and the
proposed view (after development).
      2.   The proposed screening methods which shall include, but not be
limited to: architectural design, designated building envelopes, height
restrictions, landscaping, fencing, construction materials, and colors.
      3.   The existing vegetation and the proposed method of preserving and/or
replacing such vegetation.
      4.   A statement detailing how the proposed development or subdivision
minimizes grading through careful site and roadway design.
   H.   Other Pertinent Data: Any other pertinent data deemed necessary by the
engineer of record or by the director, after consulting with the engineer of
record, to satisfy the stated purpose of this article and that is reasonably
related to the health, safety, and welfare of the general public and persons
who might purchase the property being developed. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd.
Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010)
8-3H-4: PROCESS:
   A.   The preliminary grading plan, prepared by the engineer of record, shall
be submitted with the development application. The director shall forward the
preliminary grading plan and other documents required by this article to the
county engineer for review and recommendation.
   B.   Upon review of the study, the county engineer shall forward a
recommendation on the grading plan to the director. The director shall apply
the standards listed in section
8-3H-5 of this article and the required findings listed in section
8-3H-6 of this article to determine whether or not to approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the preliminary grading plan.
   C.   No grading, filling, clearing, or excavation of any kind shall be
initiated until the preliminary grading plan is approved by the director, and
the development has received final approval by the decision making body. For
subdivisions, board approval of the preliminary plat is deemed the final
approval.
   D.   When required by the director, special inspections and special testing
shall be performed to verify conformance with this article. The cost of such
special inspections and special testing shall be borne by the applicant. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010)
8-3H-5: STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Construction shall be scheduled to minimize soil disturbance between
December 1 and April 15.
      2.   The county engineer may require the grading operation and/or project
schedule be modified if delays occur which result in weather generated problems
not anticipated at the time approval was granted.
      3.   All development shall take into account land use planning, soil
mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology, civil engineering, the environment,
architectural and landscape design, and related disciplines as applied to
hillside areas.
   B.   Development Of Special Hazard Areas: Any area that presents one or more
of the following limiting factors shall not be permitted to develop unless the
engineer of record can demonstrate to the county engineer, based on the
required engineering reports, that these limitations can be overcome in such a
manner as to prevent hazard to life, hazard to property, adverse effects on the
safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel, and adverse
impact on the natural environment:
      1.   Landslide areas or scarps, or areas of active landslides.
      2.   Lines of active faults.
      3.   Soils with a high shrinkage-expansion potential and hydrocompactible
soils.
      4.   Soils with unified classification of ML, CL, OL, MH, CH, OH, and Pt
as listed in ASTM.
      5.   Natural slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%).
      6.   Water table within six feet (6') of the surface at any time of the
year.
      7.   Any area of hydrologic hazard as determined by the engineering
hydrology report.
   C.   Vegetation:
      1.   Vegetation shall be removed only when absolutely necessary, such as
for the construction of structures, filled areas, roadways, firebreaks, or as
required by this title.
      2.   Every effort shall be made to conserve topsoil that is removed
during construction for later use on areas requiring revegetation or
landscaping, e.g., cut and fill slopes.
      3.   Vegetation or a chemical or mechanical stabilization method
sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on all disturbed areas,
except for proposed rights of way, as each stage of grading is completed. Areas
not contained within property boundaries shall be protected with adapted, fire
resistant species of perennial vegetative cover after all construction is
completed.
      4.   New plantings shall be protected with organic cover unless
determined not to be necessary in the slope stabilization and revegetation plan
and report.
   D.   Grading And Stabilization:
      1.   All retaining walls with a total vertical height of four feet (4')
or more, including footing, shall be designed in accord with the regulations of
the Ada County building code.
      2.   All slopes that are stabilized by mechanical or chemical means shall
conform to the surrounding terrain and shall be given aesthetic treatment that
is consistent with the purpose of this article.
      3.   Large tracts shall be divided into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter-spring runoff period.
      4.   All disturbed soil surfaces shall be stabilized or covered prior to
December 1. If the planned impervious surfaces (e.g., roadways, driveways,
etc.) cannot be established prior to December 1, a temporary treatment adequate
to prevent erosion shall be installed on those surfaces.
   E.   Hydrologic Controls:
      1.   Curb and gutter, pavement, and appurtenant roadway drainage
facilities shall be designed to control roadway runoff to such a point that it
is contained within the natural watercourse system.
      2.   Watercourses shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized below
drainage and culvert discharge points for a distance sufficient to convey the
discharge without channel erosion.
      3.   Any material from construction, including soil and other material,
shall not be deposited within any floodway or watercourse.
      4.   Hydraulic structures in major watercourses shall be designed for the
100-year flood. In minor watercourses, such structures shall be designed for
the 50-year flood.
      5.   With the exception of roadway crossings, approved drainage
structures, and recreation and open space uses that do not involve the
destruction of vegetative cover, development shall be prohibited within the
100-year floodplain for major watercourses, and the 50-year floodplain for
minor watercourses.
   F.   Sediment:
      1.   Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed and maintained by the
owner at the downstream property line of each development or at other
appropriate locations to protect downstream properties and watercourses from
the adverse impacts of sediment generated on site due to development
construction work. All sediment catchment ponds shall be designed to provide a
minimum of forty five (45) minutes' detention time at a velocity not greater
than two feet (2') per second and shall provide for the removal of surface
debris and surface contaminants.
      2.   The overall drainage system shall be completed and made operational
at the earliest possible time during construction. No certificate of occupancy
shall be issued on the property until the drainage system is complete.
      3.   Alterations of major watercourses shall be prohibited, except for
approved roadway crossings and drainage structures.
      4.   Natural or improved open channels shall be preserved, or provided
for, in watercourses, except that at roadway crossings, conduits may be
permitted.
   G.   Roadways And Circulation:
      1.   Roadway alignments shall be designed to create the minimum feasible
amounts of land coverage and the minimum feasible disturbance of the soil.
      2.   Roadway alignments shall be designed to minimize removal of existing
deep rooted perennial vegetation.
      3.   Roadway alignments shall be designed to follow natural terrain.
      4.   The width of the graded section shall extend five feet (5') beyond
the travel right of way line on both the cut and fill sides of the roadway for
slope rounding purposes. If a sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the
roadway, the graded section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk
plus five feet (5') beyond the sidewalk.
      5.   Combinations of collective private driveways, cluster parking areas,
and on street parallel parking bays shall be used where possible to attempt to
optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance and minimum impervious
cover.
      6.   Approval of the applicable transportation authority is required for
publicly dedicated streets.
      7.   Paving shall commence within ninety (90) days of county engineer
approval of a drainage study or drainage plan (see section
8-4A-11 of this title) and shall be completed within thirty (30) days of any
building permit being issued.
   H.   Alternatives: The director may approve, or recommend approval of, an
alternative development proposal when the overall design, as proposed by the
applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this article and
shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare.
   I.   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved subject to
the regulations of this article shall maintain in perpetuity and repair all
graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage
structures, means, and devices not subject to the jurisdiction of the
applicable transportation authority, and plantings and ground cover installed
or completed. Such requirements shall be incorporated into the protective
covenants for a subdivision and the conditions of approval for development
applications. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010)
8-3H-6: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   The site is physically suitable for the design and siting of the
proposed development. The proposed development shall result in minimum
disturbance of hillside areas;
   B.   The grading and excavation proposed in connection with the development
shall not result in soil erosion, silting of lower slopes, slide damage,
flooding, severe scarring, or any other geological instability or fire hazard
that would adversely affect the public health, safety, and welfare;
   C.   Areas not suited for development because of soil, geology, vegetation,
or hydrology limitations are designated as open space use;
   D.   Disruption of existing native vegetation and wildlife habitat is
minimized; and
   E.   The proposal sets forth sufficient and adequate mitigation for the
identified visual impacts beyond the normally expected impact of hillside
development. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3H-7: WAIVER OF STANDARDS:
   A.   The director, upon the recommendation of the county engineer, has the
authority to grant a waiver if the engineer of record can demonstrate
conclusively that any of the standards required by this article are not
necessary in the proposed development, and that the omission of such
requirements would not result in any of the following:
      1.   Hazard to life or limb.
      2.   Hazard to property.
      3.   Adverse effects on the safety, use, or stability of a public way or
drainage channel.
      4.   Adverse impact on the natural environment.
   B.   The request for a waiver of standards shall be in writing and shall
state the reason for the request. The justification for the waiver shall be
based on the engineering reports required in section
8-3H-3 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-3H-8: ENGINEER OF RECORD RESPONSIBILITIES:
To ensure that the intent of this article is attained through the principles
and practices of civil engineering, the applicant shall retain a professional
engineer currently registered in the state of Idaho to serve as the engineer of
record.
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of the engineer of record:
      1.   To prepare the preliminary grading plan.
      2.   To incorporate into the grading plans all recommendations contained
in the soils, geology and hydrology reports, and the slope stabilization and
revegetation plan and other reports as required in this article.
      3.   To inspect and certify all work within the project.
      4.   To act as coordinating agent for liaison between other
professionals, the owner, and the director.
      5.   To prepare any revised plans and to submit an as built record to the
director upon the completion of the project.
   B.   Prior to and during grading operations, the engineer of record shall
submit all necessary reports, compaction data, soils, geology and hydrology
recommendations to the director.
   C.   If, in the course of fulfilling the specified responsibilities, the
engineer of record discovers that the work is being accomplished to a
substantially lesser standard than required by this article or by the approved
final grading plan, the noncompliance shall be reported in writing to the
director within three (3) working days with recommendations for corrective
measures, if applicable. The director may require corrective action within a
specified period of time. If any deficiency is deemed by the director to be an
imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, that work shall be
stopped immediately until such deficiencies are corrected.
   D.   If the engineer of record, the soils engineer, the geologist, the
professional landscape architect, or the hydrologist of record is replaced
during the course of work, the work shall be stopped. Work may resume when the
replacement individual has agreed to accept the responsibility for
certifications of the work within the areas of their individual technical
competence.
   E.   In the event work is stopped during inclement weather, all open, and/or
unfinished work on the project shall be protected to the satisfaction of the
director.
   F.   At the conclusion of the approved work, the engineer of record shall
submit a report to the director stating that the work has been executed in
compliance with the approved plans. The report shall have the signature and
professional seal of the engineer of record. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
766, 12-8-2010)
ARTICLE I. AVIMOR PLANNED COMMUNITY OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3I-1: General Provisions
8-3I-2: Land Use Districts
8-3I-3: Administration
8-3I-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Short Title: This article, as may be amended from time to time, shall
be known, cited and referred to as the AVIMOR ZONING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose And Intent: This article is adopted to implement the vision,
goals and principles of the Avimor Planned Community and the Avimor Specific
Plan; to provide a method of land use regulation, as authorized by the Ada
County Comprehensive Plan and the Ada County zoning ordinance; and to set forth
the development standards and administrative procedures for implementing the
land use policies of the Avimor Specific Plan, in particular with respect to:
      1.   The design of quality, mixed use development.
      2.   Distinctive and effective regulations to guide development.
      3.   Flexibility and creativity in design and development in response to
market demand and site specific conditions.
      4.   Creative and innovative land planning that is sensitive to existing
environmental conditions.
      5.   The integration and balance of a variety of land uses.
      6.   The development of essential public services.
      7.   Phased and orderly development utilizing consistent criteria.
      8.   Establishing uses and standards for each residential and
nonresidential use.
      9.   The development review and approval process.
   C.   Applicability: This article shall govern and control all development
throughout the Avimor Planned Community as described in the Avimor Specific
Plan, and as shown on the land use district map, and as detailed in the land
use design and development standards matrix, and the land use table.
      1.   The provisions of the Ada County zoning ordinance shall govern all
standards or processes that are not specifically identified, set forth, or
modified by this article. Amendment of the Ada County zoning ordinance shall
neither modify nor amend the specific provisions of this article, or the land
use district map, the land use design and development standards matrix, or the
land use table adopted pursuant to this article.
      2.   Any contradiction, inconsistency or ambiguity between the
requirements of this article and any other provision of the Ada County zoning
ordinance shall be governed and controlled by this article.
      3.   The provisions of this article are severable, and if any provision,
sentence, clause, section, or any part thereof, is held illegal, invalid,
unconstitutional, or inapplicable, it shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or parts of this article.
      4.   To the extent that any specific land use is approved as a result of
the adoption of the Avimor Specific Plan, including, without limitation, the
placement and approval of any utility system or service, such uses shall
require no further application or approval.
   D.   Definitions: The definitions set forth in section
8-1A-1 of this title are generally applicable in the interpretation and
construction of this article; provided, however, that definitions set forth
below are unique to this article and shall be used specifically in the
interpretation and construction of this article. In the event of any conflict
between the terms defined in section
8-1A-1 of this title and the terms defined below, the terms defined below shall
control. Subject to the foregoing, any term used in this article not
specifically defined below shall have the same meaning ascribed to that term as
per the definitions set forth in section
8-1A-1 of this title, and any term not defined herein or in section
8-1A-1 of this title shall be given its plain and ordinary meaning.
    ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A fully functional living unit which may be rented
for income, provide residence in barter for personal services, or accommodate a
family member, and which may be a separate structure on the same lot, a portion
of the primary dwelling, or located over a garage, separate or attached to the
primary dwelling.
   ALLEY: A public or private way affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property at the back or side of a property. An alley may also provide
required frontage to a public right-of- way.
   ARTICLE: This Avimor zoning ordinance.
   AVIMOR DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE OR DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE: That certain
Design Review Committee established by the developer to review and approve site
plans, architecture and landscape designs within the Avimor Planned Community
before such plans and designs are submitted to Ada County for development
permits.
   AVIMOR PLANNED COMMUNITY: That area depicted in the Avimor Specific Plan and
on the land use district map, as they may be amended from time to time.
   AVIMOR SPECIFIC PLAN: The Avimor Specific Plan consists of the goals,
objectives, policies, maps, development standards, administration provisions
and other components of the Avimor application for a planned community which
has been adopted by the Board, and which shall serve as a guide for
development. A copy of the Avimor Specific Plan, as it may be amended from time
to time, shall be on file with the Ada County Development Services Department.
   COMMUNITY CENTER: That area, building or facility which is intended to
include the recreational and community service uses that will form the social
hub of the Avimor Planned Community, and which may include for lease office(s)
and/or retail space(s).
   COMMUNITY SERVICE DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land
use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use
District Map, which designation identifies sites for utilities and public
structures, services or facilities outside of the Village Center District,
including, without limitation, schools, fire, police, EMS and restricted
commercial uses that are compatible with open space or recreation, such as
landscape nursery, bicycle or recreational sales, rental and repair, or such
other uses that are determined by the Director to be in conformity with the
Avimor goal, objectives and policies.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMITS: Those applications and permits required for approval by
Ada County including, without limitation, master site plan approval, zoning
certificate, grading permit and building permit, as may be required pursuant to
this article or the Ada County zoning ordinance.
   DWELLING, LIVE/WORK: A building that offers the opportunity for the occupant
to live and work in the same building with distinctly separate space for each
activity.
   DWELLING, LOFT HOUSING: A dwelling unit located above a nonresidential use.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO: The ratio of total building floor area to the total land
area of the parcel where the building is located.
   FOOD VEHICLE OR TRAILER CONCESSIONS: Unit is licensed as a mobile food
establishment with the Health Authority. Unit from which food and beverages are
sold. Includes permanent and semi- permanent vehicle or trailer and is a self-
sufficient vehicle or trailer.
   FOOTHILLS OPEN SPACE DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the
land use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use
District Map, which designation identifies land retained as natural open space
for the preservation of sensitive habitat, natural features and/or hillside
areas free of development or structures other than wildlife habitat
improvements, trails and trailhead parking, recreational improvements,
agricultural uses, utilities, utility facilities, roadways, drainage facilities
or other accessory uses or approved conditional uses.
   FOOTHILLS RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the
land use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use
District Map, which designation identifies clustered, low to medium density
residential housing areas.
   LAND USE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS MATRIX: The table of design and
development standards and regulations for structures and site improvements
specific to the Avimor Planned Community, as detailed in section
8-3I-2,
table 8-3I-1 of this article.
   LAND USE DISTRICT: The specific districts within the Avimor Planned
Community where designated land uses are regulated. See definitions of
Community Service District, Foothills Residential District, Foothills Open
Space District, Village Center District, Village Residential District, Village
Open Space District.
   LAND USE DISTRICT MAP: The map depicting the boundary of the Avimor Planned
Community and the land use districts within such boundary, as detailed in
section
8-3I-2,
table 8-3I-1 of this article.
   MIXED USE: The integration of different uses, including, without limitation,
workspace such as office and retail, dwellings, shopping, schools, restaurants,
entertainment, parks, and civic buildings, all within close proximity and often
within the same buildings.
   MODEL HOME COMPLEX/SALES CENTER: One (1) or more dwellings or group of
dwellings which is/are shown to prospective buyers, which may include parking,
signage, fenced visitor "capture" area(s) and sales office(s).
   PHASE: A development area within the Avimor Planned Community designated as
such on a subdivision plat.
   SELF-SUFFICIENT VEHICLE OR TRAILER: Unit is equipped for preparing
perishable Potentially Hazardous Food/Temperature Controlled for Safety (PHF/
TCS) foods, cooking, hot and cold storage, dry storage, utensil washing, hand
washing etc., on the unit with self-contained potable water supply and
wastewater storage. Pressurized hot and cold water is required in mobile unit.
   SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE: A final plat shall be deemed to be in substantial
conformance to a preliminary plat provided that the final plat represents no
increase in the number of lots as approved for the preliminary plat, provided
that the density and lot dimensions meet the standards of the applicable land
use district, and provided that roadway alignments conform to those depicted on
the preliminary plat.
   VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land use
design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use District
Map, which identifies a mixed use core of the community.
   VILLAGE OPEN SPACE DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land
use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use
District Map, which identifies lands which shall remain open and free of
development or structures other than wildlife habitat improvements, trails and
trailhead parking, recreational improvements, utilities, roadways, drainage
facilities or other uses as approved through the conditional use process.
   VILLAGE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land
use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use
District Map which identifies a central single-family neighborhood of diverse
housing types. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 860, 1-31-2017)
8-3I-2: LAND USE DISTRICTS:
   A.   Land Use Districts: All areas within the Avimor Planned Community are
divided into land use districts, and the use of each lot, parcel or tract of
land is defined by the standards of its applicable land use district. The land
use districts and the statement of purpose for each are as follows:
      1.   Village Center District (VC): It is the purpose of the Village
Center Land Use District to provide for civic, commercial, retail and office
uses, and for higher density residential uses in a mixed use village
environment, located at the primary entrance and focal point of the community,
in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives and policies.
      2.   Village Residential District (VR): It is the purpose of the village
residential land use district to provide for predominantly single-family
residential uses, in flat land or moderately sloped areas, at densities between
3.5 and eight (8) units per acre in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives
and policies.
      3.   Foothills Residential District (FR): It is the purpose of the
foothills residential land use district to provide for larger lot, single-
family residential uses in hillside and valley areas at densities ranging from
0.5 to two (2) units per acre in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives
and policies.
      4.   Community Service District (CS): It is the purpose of the community
service land use district to provide for utilities and public structures,
services or facilities outside of the village center district, including,
without limitation, schools, fire, police, EMS, and restricted commercial uses
that are compatible with open space or recreation, such as landscape nursery,
bicycle or recreational sales, rental and repair, or such other uses that are
determined by the director to be in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives
and policies.
      5.   Foothills Open Space District (FOS): It is the purpose of the
foothills open space land use district to provide for preservation of riparian
corridors of natural watercourses, steep hillsides and major ridges above the
three thousand five hundred foot (3,500') elevation, view corridors and
wildlife habitat in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives and policies.
      6.   Village Open Space District (VOS): It is the purpose of the village
open space land use district to provide for natural and improved open spaces,
including, without limitation, riparian corridors of natural watercourses,
parks and play fields, and wetlands and drainage facilities in conformity with
the Avimor goal, objectives and policies.
   B.   Land Use Design And Development Standards Matrix: All structures and
site improvements within the various land use districts shall meet the design
and development standards of
table 8-3I-1 of this section unless otherwise specified.
TABLE 8-3I-1
AVIMOR PLANNED COMMUNITY LAND USE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS MATRIX
 
Land Use    Design Principles                                             Land Type/                                             Uses          Density 1   Height2 Lot Size/
District                                                                  Location                                                                                 Coverage3
                                                                                                                                               3.5
                                                                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                                                                               units per
                                                                                                                                               acre
                                                                                                                                               minimum
                                                                                                                                 Retail,       where
                                                                                                                                 office and    residential
                                                                                                                                 service with  uses
                                                                                                                                 residential14 proposed
                                                                                                                                 uses at a      
            -   Centrally located civic, commercial, retail, office                                                           minimum of    Floor area          Size:
            -   Mixed use6                                                                                                    25% of gross  ratio shall         1,500 sq.
            -   Most intense housing                                   Flat land areas                                        building      be a                ft.
Village     -   Neighborhood scale commercial                                                                                square        minimum of          minimum
Center      -   Pedestrian orientation                                 See land use district map,                             footage for   0.3         40'      
            -   Buildings relate to street                             table 8-3I-2  of this section                          the entire                       Coverage:
            -   Shared use parking encouraged for commercial/community                                                        village       There shall         No
            uses                                                                                                                 center        be no               maximum
                                                                                                                                 district      maximum
                                                                                                                                              floor area
                                                                                                                                 See land use  ratio
                                                                                                                                 table, table   
                                                                                                                                 8-3I-3 of     No more
                                                                                                                                 this section  than 1
                                                                                                                                               accessory
                                                                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                                                                               unit per
                                                                                                                                               residential
                                                                                                                                               lot
                                                                                                                                               3.5                 Size:
                                                                                                                                               dwelling            Attached:
                                                                                                                                               units per           1,500 sq.
                                                                                                                                               acre                ft.
                                                                                                                                               minimum; 8          minimum
                                                                                                                                               dwelling            Detached:
                                                                          Flat land or gently sloped areas 0–8% slope typical7 See land use  units per           3,500 sq.
Village     Diverse housing types and income levels                                                                             table, table  acre                ft.
Residential                                                              See land use district map,                             8-3I-3 of     maximum     35'     minimum
            Pedestrian orientation                                        table 8-3I-2  of this section                          this section                      
                                                                                                                                               No more             Coverage
                                                                                                                                               than 1              maximum:
                                                                                                                                               accessory           Attached:
                                                                                                                                               dwelling            80%
                                                                                                                                               unit per            Detached:
                                                                                                                                               residential         60%
                                                                                                                                               lot
                                                                                                                                               0.5
                                                                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                                                                               units per
                                                                                                                                               acre
                                                                                                                                               minimum; 2          Size:
                                                                                                                                               dwelling            9,000 sq.
            Residential transition from village uses to foothills open                                                           See land use  units per           ft.
Foothills   space                                                         Moderate hillside areas - 5–25% slopes typical       table, table  acre                minimum
Residential                                                                                                                    8-3I-3 of     maximum     35'      
            Grade adaptive housing encouraged                             See land use district map                              this section                     Coverage
                                                                                                                                               No more             maximum:
                                                                                                                                               than 1              45%
                                                                                                                                               accessory
                                                                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                                                                               unit per
                                                                                                                                               residential
                                                                                                                                               lot
                                                                                                                                                                   Size:
                                                                                                                                                                   1,500 sq.
                                                                          Generally throughout the planned community where       See land use                      ft.
Community   Structures or facilities providing community services outside community services uses are needed                     table, table  n/a         40'     minimum
Service     of the village center district                                See land use district map,                             8-3I-3 of                          
                                                                          table 8-3I-2  of this section                          this section                      Coverage:
                                                                                                                                                                   No
                                                                                                                                                                   maximum
                                                                          Steep hillside areas with slopes exceeding 25%         See land use
Foothills   Preservation of natural features, wildlife habitat and view   See land use district map,                             table, table  n/a         n/a     n/a
Open Space  corridors                                                     table 8-3I-2  of this section                          8-3I-3 of
                                                                                                                                 this section
            Preservation of sensitive areas, scenic corridors and         Varied: riparian corridors, moderate slopes, unique    See land use
Village     wildlife habitat, and cultural sites but with public or       natural features                                       table, table  n/a         n/a     n/a
Open Space  private recreational open spaces                              See land use district map,                             8-3I-3 of
                                                                          table 8-3I-2  of this section                          this section
 
 
Land Use    Frontage Minimum Setbacks5                       Streets/       Design        Landscaping/Open Space12
District    4                                                Parking        Standards
                                                                            The
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            set forth in
                                                                            section B-13
                                                                            of the Avimor
                                                                            specific plan
                                                                            are hereby
                                                                            incorporated
                                                                            by this
                                                                            reference and
                                                             Public         shall
                                                             streets: ACHD  constitute
                                                             approved       the design
                                                             standards      and
                                                                           development
                                                             Parking        standards for
                                                             requirement    the following
            20'                                              per chapter 4, design
                                                            article G of   elements:     Open space: n/a
            Corner                                           this title     green design   
Village     lot: 25'                                                       standards,    Landscape:
Center              No minimum setbacks                     On street      water         -   Residential uses subject to standards applied by Avimor design review
            Flag                                             parallel or    conservation, committee
            lot:                                             diagonal       energy        -   Community and commercial/industrial uses subject to requirements of
            20'8                                             parking with   conservation, chapter 4, article F of this title
                                                             parking        site design,
                                                             reduction by   grading and
                                                             approval of a  drainage,
                                                             parking budget architecture,
                                                             for            landscape,
                                                             nonresidential fences and
                                                             uses13         walls,
                                                                            lighting,
                                                                            signage, and
                                                                            wildlife. The
                                                                            relevant
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            shall be
                                                                            applied to
                                                                            uses within
                                                                            this land use
                                                                            district as
                                                                            appropriate.
                                                                            The
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            set forth in
                                                                            section B-13
                                                                            of the Avimor
                                                                            specific plan
                                                                            are hereby
                                                                            incorporated
                                                                            by this
                                                                            reference and
                                                                            shall
                                                                            constitute
                                                                            the design
                                                                            and
                                                                            development
                     Front: 10' for all structures except:                  standards for
                     -   8' for alley loaded residences   Public         the following
            30'      -   20' for all residential garages9 streets: ACHD  design
                    Side:                                   approved       elements:     Open space: n/a
            Corner   Attached 0'                             standards      green design   
Village     lot: 35' Detached 5'                                           standards,    Landscape:
Residential         Zero lot line: 10' between living area  Parking        water         -   Residential uses subject to standards applied by Avimor design review
            Flag     on adjacent lots11                      requirement    conservation, committee
            lot:                                            per chapter 4, energy        -   Community and commercial/industrial uses subject to requirements of
            20'8     Street side: 10'                        article G of   conservation, chapter 4, article F of this title
                                                            this title     site design,
                     Rear: 15' except: 5' for alley loaded                  grading and
                     residential garages10                                  drainage,
                                                                            architecture,
                                                                            landscape,
                                                                            fences and
                                                                            walls,
                                                                            lighting,
                                                                            signage, and
                                                                            wildlife. The
                                                                            relevant
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            shall be
                                                                            applied to
                                                                            uses within
                                                                            this land use
                                                                            district as
                                                                            appropriate.
                                                                            The
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            set forth in
                                                                            section B-13
                                                                            of the Avimor
                                                                            specific plan
                                                                            are hereby
                                                                            incorporated
                                                                            by this
                                                                            reference and
                                                                            shall
                                                                            constitute
                                                                            the design
                                                                            and
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards for
                     Front:                                  Public         the following
            40'8     -   Living 15'                       streets: ACHD  design
                    -   Garage 20'9                      approved       elements:     Open space: n/a
            Corner   Side:                                   standards      green design   
Foothills   lot: 45' -   Minimum 5'                                     standards,    Landscape:
Residential         -   Cumulative 15' minimum           Parking        water         -   Residential uses subject to standards applied by Avimor design review
            Flag     Street side: 10'                        requirement    conservation, committee
            lot:     Rear:                                   per chapter 4, energy        -   Community and commercial/industrial uses subject to requirements of
            20'8     -   Living 20'                       article G of   conservation, chapter 4, article F of this title
                     -   Garage 5'10                      this title     site design,
                                                                            grading and
                                                                            drainage,
                                                                            architecture,
                                                                            landscape,
                                                                            fences and
                                                                            walls,
                                                                            lighting,
                                                                            signage, and
                                                                            wildlife. The
                                                                            relevant
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            shall be
                                                                            applied to
                                                                            uses within
                                                                            this land use
                                                                            district as
                                                                            appropriate.
                                                                            The
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            set forth in
                                                                            section B-13
                                                                            of the Avimor
                                                                            specific plan
                                                                            are hereby
                                                                            incorporated
                                                                            by this
                                                                            reference and
                                                                            shall
                                                                            constitute
                                                                            the design
                                                                            and
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards for
                                                                            the following
                                                                            design
                     Front: 10'                                             elements:
                     Side: 10'                               Parking        green design  Open space: n/a
Community            Rear: 10'                               requirement    standards,     
Service     20'      - except for any parcel located         per chapter 4, water         Landscape: All uses subject to requirements of chapter 4, article F of this
                     adjacent to a residential district      article G of   conservation, title
                     where setback to any common boundary    this title     energy
                     with a residential lot shall be 30'                    conservation,
                                                                            site design,
                                                                            grading and
                                                                            drainage,
                                                                            architecture,
                                                                            landscape,
                                                                            fences and
                                                                            walls,
                                                                            lighting,
                                                                            signage, and
                                                                            wildlife. The
                                                                            relevant
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            shall be
                                                                            applied to
                                                                            uses within
                                                                            this land use
                                                                            district as
                                                                            appropriate.
                                                                            The
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            set forth in
                                                                            section B-13
                                                                            of the Avimor
                                                                            specific plan
                                                                            are hereby
                                                                            incorporated
                                                                            by this
                                                                            reference and
                                                                            shall
                                                                            constitute
                                                                            the design
                                                                            and
                                                                            development
                                                             Public         standards for
                                                             streets: ACHD  the following
                                                             approved       design
                     For structures and improvements         standards      elements:     Open space designated for all areas unoccupied by building lots, structures,
                     permitted within the district, there                  green design  streets, or parking lots, except as otherwise specified in chapter 4,
Foothills            shall be no minimum setback except for  Parking        standards,    article J of this title
Open Space  n/a      any parcel located adjacent to a        requirement    water          
                    residential district where setback to   per chapter 4, conservation, Landscape: All uses subject to requirements of chapter 4, article F of this
                     any common boundary with a residential  article G of   energy        title
                     lot shall be 30'                        this title     conservation,
                                                             except as set  site design,
                                                             forth in note  grading and
                                                             14             drainage,
                                                                            architecture,
                                                                            landscape,
                                                                            fences and
                                                                            walls,
                                                                            lighting,
                                                                            signage, and
                                                                            wildlife. The
                                                                            relevant
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            shall be
                                                                            applied to
                                                                            uses within
                                                                            this land use
                                                                            district as
                                                                            appropriate.
                                                                            The
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            set forth in
                                                                            section B-13
                                                                            of the Avimor
                                                                            specific plan
                                                                            are hereby
                                                                            incorporated
                                                                            by this
                                                                            reference and
                                                                            shall
                                                                            constitute
                                                                            the design
                                                                            and
                                                                            development
                                                             Public         standards for
                                                             streets: ACHD  the following
                                                             approved       design
                     For structures and improvements         standards      elements:     Open space designated for all areas unoccupied by building lots, structures,
                     permitted within the district, there                  green design  streets, or parking lots, except as otherwise specified in chapter 4,
Village              shall be no minimum setback except for  Parking        standards,    article J of this title
Open Space  n/a      any parcel located adjacent to a        requirement    water          
                     residential district where setback to   per chapter 4, conservation, Landscape: All uses subject to requirements of chapter 4, article F of this
                     any common boundary with a residential  article G of   energy        title
                     lot shall be 30'                        this title     conservation,
                                                             except as set  site design,
                                                             forth in note  grading and
                                                             14             drainage,
                                                                            architecture,
                                                                            landscape,
                                                                            fences and
                                                                            walls,
                                                                            lighting,
                                                                            signage, and
                                                                            wildlife. The
                                                                            relevant
                                                                            development
                                                                            standards and
                                                                            design
                                                                            guidelines
                                                                            shall be
                                                                            applied to
                                                                            uses within
                                                                            this land use
                                                                            district as
                                                                            appropriate.
 
Notes:
   1.   The height of any structure shall be measured at:
-   The top of parapet for flat roof structures.
-   The midpoint average between the eaves and roof peak for pitched roof
structures.
-   From finished grade at any point under the structure for grade adapted, or
stepped foundations, or engineered building pad.
-   Height exception for: cell towers, chimneys, church spires or belfries,
radio tower, water tanks, elevator bulkheads, windmills.
   2.   The term "coverage" is defined as the footprint of a structure at the
foundation wall, including covered areas: porches, entries and patios.
Driveways and walks are excluded.
   3.   Frontage requirements may be met by frontage on an alley.
   4.   Encroachments:
-   Eaves, fireplaces or other architectural features may project up to 2 feet
into a side yard setback.
-   Open porches may project up to 5 feet into a front yard setback.
-   Open structures (porches, patios, balconies, and similar architectural
features) may project up to 10 feet into a rear yard setback.
   5.   Mixed use: The integration of different uses, including, without
limitation, work space such as office and retail, dwellings, shopping, schools,
restaurants, entertainment, parks, and civic buildings, all within close
proximity and often within the same buildings.
   6.   Slope is calculated as the average grade across a parcel of land.
   7.   Frontage for flag lots shall be 20 feet and shall apply in all land use
districts notwithstanding the specified frontage.
   8.   Front setbacks shall be measured from back of sidewalk or property
line, whichever is closer. The 20 foot garage setback is measured from face of
the garage door to back of sidewalk. The setback for a side entry garage may be
reduced to the same as the living area setback, except when access is from a
side street.
   9.   The setback for an accessory dwelling unit over a garage shall be the
same as for the garage itself.
   10.   Zero lot line development in the village residential land use district
shall only be permitted on lots platted for such purpose which plat designates
the permissible building envelope for each zero lot line lot.
   11.   Open space: Land or water left in an undisturbed natural condition and
unoccupied by building lots, structures, streets, or parking lots, except as
otherwise specified in chapter 4, article J of this title.
   12.   The amount of land dedicated to parking lots may be reduced by
approval of a parking budget using shared parking, differential time use, 1
stop multiple use, and on street parking. The director shall have the authority
to approve such a parking budget with different parking requirements than are
set forth in the ordinances, after determining that adequate parking is
provided for the proposed uses. The uses upon which the parking budget is
approved shall not be changed without the director's approval. Diagonal on
street parking may be approved by ACHD consistent with pedestrian safety.
   13.   Village center land use district may include the following residential
uses: duplexes, single-family attached, live/work units, lofts, multi-family,
and townhouses.
   14.   The parking requirements set forth in section
8-4G-6, table
8-4G-2 of this title for public recreation facility or open space as set forth
therein, are hereby modified so that no parking shall be required for any use
except for those open space uses specified in subsection
8-4J-3C4 of this title.
   C.   Land Use District Map: The land use districts are established by, and
depicted on the Land Use District Map as set forth in
table 8-3I-2 of this section. Land use district boundaries are general and
shall be refined during the detailed site planning process. The exact location
of the land use district boundaries shall be established during subdivision
platting and shall be described by metes and bounds and identified on the
preliminary and final subdivision plats.
TABLE 8-3I-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2066.gif]
 
   D.   Land Use Regulations: Land use eligibility for each land use district
is set forth in
table 8-3I-3, "Avimor Planned Community Land Use Table", of this section.
      1.   The land use table designates uses as: principal permitted uses (P),
conditional uses (C), or prohibited uses (-).
      2.   Principal permitted uses shall be allowed anywhere within a land use
district upon the platting of the property and designation of the land use
district for the property where the use is proposed; the issuance of a zoning
certificate; and the issuance of a building permit.
      3.   Any conditional use not approved as part of the Avimor Specific Plan
shall be allowed only upon the issuance of a conditional use permit.
      4.   When a proposed use is not identified by this article as a principal
permitted use, a conditional use or an accessory use, but such use is not
specifically designated as a prohibited use, such shall be evaluated and
determined by the Director pursuant to the Ada County zoning ordinance.
      5.   Agricultural uses, including the grazing of livestock within the
Foothills Open Space District, shall not materially interfere with the
district's open space function or any other use permitted therein under this
article, as evaluated and determined by the Director in section
8-3I-3 of this article.
TABLE 8-3I-3
AVIMOR PLANNED COMMUNITY LAND USE TABLE
             Land Use Districts
Use Category Village Village     Foothills   Community Foothills Village
             Center  Residential Residential Service   OS        OS
                    Land Use Districts
Use Category        Village Village     Foothills   Community Foothills Village
                    Center  Residential Residential Service   OS        OS
Residential:                                                        
 Accessory         P       P           P           -         -         -
  dwelling unit
 Bed and breakfast P       C           C           -         -         -
  establishment
  Duplex/dwelling,
 single-family     P       P           P           -         -         -
  attached
 Dwelling, live/   P       P           C           -         -         -
  work
 Dwelling, loft    P       -           -           -         -         -
 Dwelling, multi-  P       P           -           -         -         -
  family
 Dwelling, single- -       P           P           -         -         -
  family detached
 Dwelling,         P       P           -           -         -         -
  townhouse
 Group daycare     P       P           P           -         -         -
  facility
 Home occupations  P       P           P           -         -         -
  Model home
 complex/sales     -       P           P           -         -         -
  center
Community:                                                          
 Adult respite     P       C           -           -         -         -
  care center
  Auditoriums,
  community
 theaters, museum, P       -           -           -         -         -
  art gallery,
  library, post
  office/studio
  Campground,
 recreational      P       -           -           P         -         -
  vehicle park
  Church or place
 of religious      P       P           -           -         -         -
  worship
 Community garden  P       P           -           P         -         P
 Daycare center    P       C           -           -         -         -
  Greenhouse;
 nursery, retail;  P       C           -           P         -         -
  nursery,
  wholesale
 Nursing facility, P       -           -           -         -         -
  skilled
 Public safety;    P       C           -           P         -         -
  fire, police, EMS
  Recreational
  area, play field
 and facilities,   P       P           P           P         P         P
  including school
  fields
  Recreational
 buildings, public P       P           P           C         -         -
  or private,
  indoor
 Residential care  P       C           -           -         -         -
  facility
  School, public or
 private:          P       C           C           P         -         -
  kindergarten,
  elementary
  School, public or
 private: middle,  C       C           -           C         -         -
  junior high, and
  senior high
Commercial/                                                         
industrial:
  Animal clinic,
 animal hospital   P       -           -           -         -         -
  or veterinary
  office
  Automotive
  service, gas
 station, car      P       -           -           -         -         -
  wash, convenience
  store with gas
  pumps
  Bank/financial
 institution,      P       -           -           -         -         -
  including drive-
  up window service
 Bar/brewpub       P       -           -           -         -         -
 Dwelling, live/   P       P           C           -         -         -
  work
 Equestrian        -       -           C           C         C         C
  facility
  Food vehicle/
 trailer           P       -           -           -         -         P
  concessions
 Grocery store/    P       -           -           -         -         -
  pharmacy
 Health club, spa  P       -           -           -         -         -
 Hotel or motel    P       -           -           -         -         -
 Laundromat/dry    P       -           -           -         -         -
  cleaning
 Liquor store/wine P       -           -           -         -         -
  shop
  Movie theaters/
 entertainment     P       -           -           -         -         -
  complex
  Office:
 professional,     P       -           -           -         -         -
  business,
  medical, dental
  Outdoor markets/
 community events/ P       P           P           P         P         P
  sales events
 Recycling center  C       -           -           -         -         -
  Restaurant/
 bakery/coffee     P       -           -           -         -         -
  shop, including
  drive-through
 Retail store      P       -           -           -         -         -
 Social hall, club P       -           -           -         -         -
  or lodge
 Storage facility, P       -           -           -         -         -
  self-service
  Temporary
 construction      P       P           P           P         P         P
  office/temporary
  construction yard
 Transit facility/ P       -           -           P         -         -
  park and ride lot
  Utilities:
  substation, gas
 regulator         C       C           C           P         C         -
  station,
  telecommunication
  tower or facility
  Utilities: well
  field, water and
 wastewater        C       C           C           P         C         -
  treatment
  facilities
 
(Ord. 739, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 832, 11-17-2014; amd. Ord. 860, 1-31-2017)
8-3I-3: ADMINISTRATION:
This section defines the review and approval process for the development of the
Avimor Planned Community in accordance with the provisions of the Avimor
Specific Plan and the Ada County zoning ordinance.
It shall be the duty of the Director to administer the provisions of this
article for the development of the Avimor Planned Community. The Director shall
interpret the provisions of this article and make decisions on land use issues
not specifically addressed by the Avimor Specific Plan or this article.
The Director, Commission, and/or Board, as the case may be, shall base their
approvals or disapprovals upon compliance with the provisions of this article
and the goals and policies and purpose and intent of the Avimor Specific Plan.
   A.   Avimor Specific Plan Compliance: All development within the Avimor
Planned Community shall conform to the Avimor Specific Plan as it may be
amended from time to time.
      1.   Each phase of the development that is compliant with the Avimor
Specific Plan shall be subject only to the applicable preliminary and final
plat subdivision regulations of this article.
      2.   Modifications of the Avimor Specific Plan may be submitted, reviewed
and approved concurrently with a subdivision preliminary plat.
   B.   Overlay Districts: Development proposals within the Avimor Planned
Community shall be subject to and shall comply with the requirements of
applicable overlay districts.
   C.   Land Divisions: The subdivision of land, or the adjustment of parcels
within the Avimor Planned Community, shall conform to the Avimor Specific Plan
and the applicable procedures and specifications of the Ada County zoning
ordinance, except that the provisions of subsection
8-6A-1D of this title shall not apply to subdivision platting in Avimor;
provided, however, that no neighborhood meetings shall be required for a
subdivision application unless the preliminary plat proposes a modification of
the Avimor Specific Plan as may be amended from time to time.
   D.   Development Permits: Development applications shall be reviewed and
development permits shall be issued pursuant to the applicable procedures and
specifications of this Code subject to the modifications set forth herein.
Development permits shall not be issued prior to the approval of a subdivision
application for a phase or portion of a phase. No development permits shall be
issued for any use until such time as the applicant has provided to the County
a letter of approval issued by the Avimor Design Review Committee evidencing
the determination of the Avimor Design Review Committee that the use and
application comply with the design standards for the Avimor Planned Community.
The development permits shall be reviewed and issued as follows:
      1.   Master Site Plan: Master site plan approval shall be required
pursuant to the procedures of chapter 4, article E of this title regarding
master site plan approval for all uses except as modified herein.
         a.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections
8-4E-2B and C of this title, all land uses within the Avimor Planned Community
shall obtain master site plan approval except for those designated as
residential uses on the land use table, community events, and food vehicle/
trailer concessions which have a separate approval process outlined in
subsections D5 and D6, respectively of this section.
         b.   The Director shall apply those standards set forth in section
8-4E-4 of this title, to the extent that those standards do not conflict with
the provisions of the land use design and development standards matrix. For
purposes of master site plan approval, compliance with this article and the
Avimor Specific Plan shall constitute compliance with subsections
8-4E-4D, G, I, and K of this title and an applicant for master site plan
approval shall not be required to comply with the standards set forth in those
subsections.
         c.   In the event of any conflict between the standards set forth in
section
8-4E-4 of this title and the land use design and development standards matrix,
the land use design and development standards matrix shall control.
         d.   In order to approve an application for master site plan approval,
the Director shall make the following findings:
            (1)   The master site plan complies with this article, the Ada
County zoning ordinance and is in accordance with the Avimor Specific Plan;
            (2)   The proposed landscaping meets the requirements of chapter 4,
article F of this title;
            (3)   The proposed parking and loading spaces meet the requirements
of chapter 4, article G of this title;
            (4)   The proposed lighting plan meets the requirements of chapter
4, article H of this title; and
            (5)   The proposed master site plan complies with the land use
design and development standards matrix.
      2.   Zoning Certificate: A zoning certificate shall be required for all
uses and shall be issued in conformance with the requirements of the Ada County
zoning ordinance.
      3.   Building Permit: Building permits shall be issued in accordance with
title 7, chapter 2 of this Code, or the same may be amended or retitled from
time to time, for all uses as applicable. When a single-family dwelling has a
garage or private living quarters that is semi-detached only, one (1) building
permit is required for both the single-family dwelling and the semi-detached
garage or private living quarters.
      4.   Grading Permits: Grading permits shall be issued in accordance with
title 7, chapter 2 of this Code, or as the same may be amended or retitled from
time to time and/or the Ada County zoning ordinance as applicable.
      5.   Community Events: For events that: a) are open to the public and/or
persons who are not residents of Avimor and b) have an expected attendance of
three hundred (300) people or more, Avimor must adhere to the following
procedure:
         a.   Notify Avimor residents of the upcoming event by posting a notice
in the community center and sending an electronic notice via e-mail or website
portal indicating the date, time, and nature of the event. The notice will be
given at least ten (10) days before the event, but not more than twenty five
(25) days before the event.
         b.   At least ten (10) days prior to the event, Avimor will submit to
Ada County Development Services letters from the Eagle Fire Protection
District, Ada County Sheriff's Office, Central District Health Department, and
the Ada County Highway District setting forth their respective approval of the
event.
         c.   Apply for and obtain a zoning certificate after submittal of the
approval letters specified in subsection D5b of this section.
For all smaller events, even those open to the public or nonresidents, no
approval is required.
      6.   Food Vehicle/Trailer Concessions: Except as outlined in subsection
D6d of this section, prior to any operation, a zoning certificate shall be
obtained from Ada County Development Services. When applying for the zoning
certificate, the following shall be submitted to the Ada County Development
Services' Office:
         a.   Complete Ada County Development Services application form;
         b.   Copy of Central District Health Department current mobile food
establishment license; and
         c.   Scaled site plan showing all property lines, location of food
vehicle/trailer concessions, suitable off-street parking, and ADA
accessibility.
         d.   For all food vehicle/trailer concessions that are part of an
Avimor community event, a zoning certificate from Ada County Development
Services is not required; however approval from the Central District Health
Department is still required. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 832, 11-17-2014;
amd. Ord. 860, 1-31-2017)
ARTICLE J. RESERVED
(Ord. 762, 10-13-2010)
ARTICLE K. CARTWRIGHT RANCH PLANNED COMMUNITY
SECTION:
8-3K-1: Short Title
8-3K-2: Purpose And Intent
8-3K-3: Applicability
8-3K-4: Definitions
8-3K-5: Land Use Districts
8-3K-6: Administrative Regulations
8-3K-7: Setbacks; Structural And Spatial Requirements
8-3K-8: Landscaping Requirements
8-3K-9: Open Space Requirements
8-3K-10: Street Frontage And Access Requirements
8-3K-11: Sign Requirements
8-3K-12: On And Off Street Parking Requirements
8-3K-13: Standards For Energy And Water Conservation
8-3K-14: Grading Requirements
8-3K-15: Design Standards For Structures And Site Improvements
8-3K-16: Amendments
8-3K-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known, cited and referred to as the CARTWRIGHT RANCH
PLANNED COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Generally, this article is enacted with the purpose and intent of promoting, on
behalf of the Cartwright Ranch planned community, public health, safety,
comfort and general welfare; to conserve and control the population density and
to facilitate adequate and economical provisions for public improvements, all
in accordance with the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan for the desirable
future physical development of Cartwright Ranch, all as authorized by the Ada
County comprehensive plan, the Ada County zoning ordinance, the state
legislature, and the constitution of the state.
Specifically, the purpose and intent of this article is to set forth the
development standards and administrative procedures for implementing the land
use policies of the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan. This article shall be
consistent with the adopted Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan. Furthermore,
it is the purpose of this article to:
   A.   Provide for the design of quality, mixed use development within the
Cartwright Ranch planned community;
   B.   Provide distinctive, efficient and effective regulations to guide
development in Cartwright Ranch;
   C.   Encourage flexibility and creativity in Cartwright Ranch's design and
development in order to respond to market demand and site specific conditions
while enhancing the economic viability and quality of Cartwright Ranch;
   D.   Provide for the integration and balance of a variety of uses in
Cartwright Ranch;
   E.   Provide flexibility for reconfiguration of residential and
nonresidential uses and/or population density as long as these reconfigurations
do not conflict with the overall intent of the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive
plan and this article; and
   F.   Identify and define standards for uses that may occur in each of the
land use categories. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Development And Administration: This article governs the development
and administration of Cartwright Ranch, as shown on the Cartwright Ranch land
use map found in the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan. Where this article
specifically references other sections of this code, such other sections of
this code shall apply and govern. This article shall not apply to any land not
incorporated within the Cartwright Ranch boundary.
The approved Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan, as it may be amended, is now
a part of the Ada County comprehensive plan.
   B.   Flexibility: The development standards and design guidelines contained
in the Cartwright Ranch development plan and Cartwright Ranch comprehensive
plan are intended to depict the general nature and relative intensity of
residential and nonresidential development in Cartwright Ranch, while allowing
sufficient flexibility at the time of platting so that the overall goals and
policies and purpose and intent of Cartwright Ranch can be achieved. The
configuration and densities of development parcels and phases may be altered
from those shown on Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan to accommodate market,
financing, site, engineering, development and other conditions and revisions to
the project's implementation strategy providing that the reconfiguration is in
accordance with the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan and this article.
   C.   Conflict Of Laws: If conflict arises between this article and this
code, the provisions of this code shall apply. Notwithstanding, where this
article states definitions, standards, or other provisions specific to
Cartwright Ranch, those provisions in this article shall apply. (Ord. 739, 2-
10-2010)
8-3K-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are specific to Cartwright Ranch and shall be used in
the interpretation and construction of this Cartwright Ranch zoning ordinance
in lieu of definitions in other sections of this code. Any term used in this
article not defined herein, shall have the meaning set forth in chapter 1,
article A of this title. Any term not defined herein or in chapter 1, article A
of this title, shall have its plain and ordinary meaning.
AGRICULTURAL OPERATION: The growing of cultivated crops, fruit trees, berry
bushes, grazing, pasturage, raising of domestic livestock, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating or storing of produce. The operation of any accessory uses to
agricultural purposes shall not include a commercial packing facility, feedlot
or stockyard, the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other
animals, a slaughterhouse, the operation of a fertilizer works, nor plants for
the reduction of animal matter.
AGRICULTURAL OUTBUILDING: Any building or structure used for storage or shelter
of farming materials, equipment, supplies, products or animals.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan
consists of the vision statement for Cartwright Ranch, a list of coordinated
goals, objectives and policies for the development, a conceptual land use map,
and illustrations depicting proposed street, trail and path cross sections. The
Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan is a part of the Ada County comprehensive
plan.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The Cartwright Ranch development plan
generally includes: a) a natural features map and analysis, b) a narrative
describing the proposed land uses and design of the project, c) a map showing
existing land uses within one mile of the project site, d) a narrative
assessment of development and population trends in Ada County, e) a
transportation and mobility plan, f) a community services and utilities plan,
g) an open space, parks and trails plan, h) a wildlife mitigation plan, i)
narrative and examples of proposed central design concepts, j) a phasing plan,
k) a letter from the Boise School District indicating school capacities and
facility needs, and l) a stormwater management plan and narrative. The
Cartwright Ranch development plan is attached as an exhibit to the Cartwright
Ranch comprehensive plan.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH LAND USE MAP: The conceptual land use map included as figure
B3 in the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH OR CARTWRIGHT RANCH PLANNED COMMUNITY: The property depicted
on the Cartwright Ranch zoning map, as amended from time to time.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH PROPERTY OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The Idaho nonprofit or profit
corporation whose members or stockholders consist exclusively of property
owners within Cartwright Ranch and whose purpose is to provide for the
administration and governance of the affairs of Cartwright Ranch.
CLINIC: A building, other than a hospital, used by one or more licensed
physicians, dentists or licensed healthcare professionals for the purpose of
receiving and treating patients.
COMMERCIAL USE: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling
or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for livelihood or profit,
or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices, civic,
recreational or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of offices by
professions and trades rendering services including all advertising, events and
other activities associated with such commercial use.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A home, place or institution licensed by the Idaho state
department of health and welfare as a nursing home or assisted care facility
that operates or maintains facilities providing convalescence or chronic care
or both for a period in excess of twenty four (24) consecutive hours for three
(3) or more patients not related by blood or marriage to the operator, said
patients who by reason of illness or infirmity are unable to properly care for
themselves.
DESIGN GUIDELINES: The design guidelines are established pursuant to the
recorded conditions, covenants and restrictions for Cartwright Ranch, as they
are amended from time to time. The design guidelines address the following,
including, but not limited to, building plans, site development and grading
plans, landscaping plans, elevations, and parking recommendations prior to
submission to the county. The design review committee enforces the design
guidelines.
DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE: The design review committee for Cartwright Ranch shall
be formed and shall operate according to the requirements established in the
recorded covenants, conditions and restrictions for Cartwright Ranch as they
may be amended from time to time. The design review committee shall be
responsible for reviewing, including, but not limited to, building plans, site
development and grading plans, landscaping plans, elevations, and parking
recommendations prior to submission of a building permit application to Ada
County.
FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: A home, place or facility providing daycare for six (6) or
fewer children.
HEALTH CLUB FACILITY: Any facility providing exercise services to its
customers.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on which
it fronts.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line.
Where the lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line shall
be deemed to be a line at a point where the side lot lines are not less than
ten feet (10') apart.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is also called a side street or flanking
street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is
also called an interior side lot line.
LOT LINES: The property lines bounding the lot.
LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth,
provided however, that the minimum lot width required for each lot type shall
be measured at a distance from the front line equal to the required least depth
of the front yard, except in the case of a flag lot, where the flag portion of
the lot is not included in the width calculation and width is measured at a
distance from the end of the flag equal to the required depth of the front
yard.
MODEL HOME: A single-family dwelling or a unit within a duplex or multi-family
dwelling which is shown to prospective buyers of lots or dwellings for the
purpose of promoting the retail sale of lots or dwellings within Cartwright
Ranch.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed for or used by
three (3) or more families or housekeeping units.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITY: Facility designed to allow Cartwright Ranch residents
to park their vehicles in order to car pool or ride in a van or bus to various
locations throughout the Treasure Valley, usually to work.
PARKING AREA OR LOT: An open area, other than a street or public way, to be
used for the storage of operable passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles,
of occupants or users of the use for which the parking area is developed and is
necessary and accessory.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure designed and used for vehicular parking and
located near the building it serves.
PUBLIC STRUCTURE: Any structure designed for the benefit and use of the public.
RETAIL STORE: A store that sells commodities in small quantities to consumers,
such as a general store, hardware store, bookstore, etc.
ROOMER OR BOARDER: Person paying remuneration for eating and sleeping within a
residence.
SERVICE STATION: A filling station or business enterprise using the premises
primarily to sell and supply motor fuel and lubricating oils and grease to on
premises trade, including the sale of tires, batteries, automotive accessories,
together with other related services, including minor motor vehicle repair. May
also include convenience retail use, not to include a drive-in establishment.
SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open, either by the front, side
and rear yard requirements of this article, or by the delineation on a recorded
plat map, or recorded covenants.
STORAGE STRUCTURE: Any facility or structure used for the storage or parking
(long term or short term) of, without limitation, vehicles, agricultural and
recreational vehicles, boats and other watercraft, snowmobiles, equipment, and
machinery.
TEMPORARY SALES OFFICE: That particular sales office(s), wherever located, used
primarily for the wholesale or retail sales of property or lots located within
Cartwright Ranch.
TOWN CENTER: That portion of Cartwright Ranch that is intended to include the
commercial, recreational and community service uses that will form the social
hub of the community.
UTILITY: Any person, entity or municipal department, duly authorized to furnish
to the public or Cartwright Ranch residents under public regulation or
otherwise, sewer, electricity, gas, steam, telephone, transportation, water,
cable television or other services. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-5: LAND USE DISTRICTS:
The purpose of this section is to implement the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive
plan. The Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan depicts the general nature and
relative intensity of residential and nonresidential development and uses
subject to the appropriate flexibility and other standards discussed elsewhere
in this article.
   A.   Land Use Districts:
      1.   PC District: Cartwright Ranch shall consist of a single base land
use district, which shall be called the Cartwright Ranch PC district. The
purpose of this district is to provide regulations and standards for
development of residential and commercial uses in a variety of typologies
including, but not limited to, single-family detached dwellings, zero lot line
developments of single-family detached, single-family attached dwellings,
duplexes and multiple-family dwellings including, but not limited to,
townhouses and condominiums, and commercial and office uses, where a central
wastewater collection and treatment system and community water system are
provided.
      2.   Commercial Overlay District: Cartwright Ranch includes a commercial
overlay district, as depicted on the Cartwright Ranch land use map, which shall
be called the Cartwright Ranch commercial overlay district. Within the
Cartwright Ranch commercial overlay district, the total lots must accommodate
up to twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of space for commercial uses until
there are a total of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of commercial uses
within Cartwright Ranch, unless permitted otherwise by the board of county
commissioners. Notwithstanding the above restriction, residential units are
permitted above the ground floor of commercial uses within the Cartwright Ranch
commercial overlay district.
   B.   Lot Types:
      1.   View Lots: View lots generally occur on the site's moderately sloped
hillsides located to the south and west of the Town Center. View lots vary
substantially in size and configuration to respond to existing topography and
to minimize visual impacts. Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set
forth in the tables in figures 8-3K(a) and 8-3K(b) of this section.
      2.   Traditional Lots: Traditional lots provide two (2) functions. Some
are buffers between different uses and are larger lots in an open rural
setting. These lots are used to transition between adjoining properties and
development or open space and development. They also transition between
different lot types within the development. In sum, traditional lots are
intended to provide a transition from farm to village character. Dimensional
standards and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures 8-3K(a) and
8-3K(b) of this section.
      3.   Village Lots: Village lots are reminiscent of the "in town" areas
traditionally found in Idaho's agricultural towns and villages. These lots and
the homes built on them are intended to form a close knit residential village
with strong pedestrian and community orientation that is found in some of the
great older neighborhoods of Boise (such as the north end). Dimensional
standards and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures 8-3K(a) and
8-3K(b) of this section.
      4.   Townhome Lots: Townhome lots are the community's smallest lots and
are intended to provide alternative, attached or smaller detached homes that
may appeal to seniors, empty nesters, first time buyers, and/or single parents
who prefer a small home with limited yard area. Townhome lots also include
commercial uses. Townhome lots are intended to be located in or within
convenient walking distance of the Town Center. Dimensional standards and
allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures 8-3K(a) and 8-3K(b) of this
section.
      5.   Developed Open Space Lots: Developed open space lots within the
project are intended to provide both active and passive recreational
opportunities. Developed open space lots may include neighborhood and community
parks, community gardens, the Dry Creek greenbelt path, the project wide trail
system, ponds, wetlands, creeks, and riparian areas. Dimensional standards and
allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures 8-3K(a) and 8-3K(b) of this
section.
      6.   Natural Open Space Lots: Natural open space lots within the project
are intended to provide both active and passive recreational opportunities as
well as wildlife or natural open areas. Natural open space lots may include the
project wide trail system, ponds, wetlands, creeks, riparian areas and
designated wildlife areas. Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set forth
in the tables in figures 8-3K(a) and 8-3K(b) of this section.
      7.   Community Center Lots: Community Center lots within Cartwright Ranch
will be used for the Community Center, community pool, post office, and other
civic and community service uses. Dimensional standards and allowed uses are
set forth in the tables in figures 8-3K(a) and 8-3K(b) of this section.
   C.   Application Of Zoning Restrictions To Lot Types: The lot type shall be
designated for each lot on each preliminary plat and final plat in Cartwright
Ranch and the zoning restrictions imposed by this article shall attach to each
lot at the time of recording of the final plat. The restrictions applying to
any lot shall change without further action in the event the lot is replatted
to a different lot type. In addition to any other restriction imposed by this
article, final plats in Cartwright Ranch may designate building envelopes
within lots. No structure may be constructed outside of a designated building
envelope unless the lot is replatted in accordance with this code.
   D.   Use Of Unplatted Property: Unplatted property within Cartwright Ranch
is intended to be used for its historic agricultural and other uses, as well as
certain other uses in furtherance of the agricultural operations and goals and
objectives of the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan. It is the ultimate
intent that all property within Cartwright Ranch be platted and divided into
different lot types. Notwithstanding chapter 2, article E of this title, any
improvements associated with the uses specified in
figure 8-3K(b) of this section may be developed and constructed on any
unplatted property within Cartwright Ranch. All uses of the unplatted property
shall be consistent with this article and the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive
plan.
   E.   Purpose Of Cartwright Ranch Land Use Map: The Cartwright Ranch land use
map contained within the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan depicts the
general nature and relative intensity of residential and nonresidential
development and uses by neighborhood and lot type, subject to the appropriate
flexibility and other standards discussed in subsection
8-3K-3B of this article and elsewhere in this article.
   F.   Allowed Uses Within Land Use Districts: Within the Cartwright Ranch PC
district described above, uses shall be allowed on lot types as set forth in
the table in
figure 8-3K(b) of this section. Uses that are not specifically listed but are
determined by the director to be similar to listed permitted or conditional
uses are also, respectively, permitted or conditionally permitted. All other
uses are prohibited.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH
FIGURE 8-3K(a) LAND USE SUMMARY TABLE
                                                  Community Developed Natural
Lot             View Traditional Village Townhome Center    Open      Open
Characteristics Lots Lots        Lots    Lots 6   Lots      Space     Space
                                                            Lots      Lots
                                                   Community Developed Natural
Lot             View  Traditional Village Townhome Center    Open      Open
Characteristics Lots  Lots        Lots    Lots 6   Lots      Space     Space
                                                             Lots      Lots
Dimensions:
Lot size        8,000 6,000 sq.   3,200   1,200    1,600 sq. See note  See
(minimum)       sq.   ft.         sq. ft. sq. ft.  ft.       d         note d
                ft.
Lot depth       100'  100'        80'     60'      40'       See note  See
(minimum)                                                    d         note d
Lot width       80'   60'         40'     20'      40'       See note  See
(minimum)                                                    d         note d
Lot frontage    30'   30'         30'     0'       0'        See note  See
(flag)                                                       d         note d
Setbacks:             
Front yard to                                                See note  See
living space    20'   20'         10'     10'      20'       d         note d
(minimum)
Front yard
alley loaded    n/a   10'         10'     10'       
garage
(minimum)
Front yard
street loaded   20'   20'         20'     20'       
garage
(minimum)
Side yard                                                    See note  See
interior lot5   3'    3'          3'      0'       20'       d         note d
(minimum)
Alley side      3'    3'          3'      0'       20'       See note  See
yard5 (minimum)                                              d         note d
Street side
yard lot4       13'   13'         13'     13'      30'       n/a       n/a
(minimum)
Minimum
separation      15'   10'         10'     10'      n/a       n/a       n/a
between
buildings
Rear yard (main                                              See note  See
structure)      20'   20'         10'     10'      20'       d         note d
(minimum)
Rear yard
(garage,
storage or      10'   10'         10'     10'      n/a       See note  See
garden                                                       d         note d
structures)
(minimum)
Others:                      
Maximum         35'   35'         40'     45'      45'       45'       45'
building height
Building
coverage        50%   60%         70%     85%      100%      n/a       n/a
(maximum)
Impervious
surface         70%   80%         90%     100%     100%      n/a       n/a
coverage
(maximum)
                See               See     See
Parking         notes See notes   notes   notes    See note  See note  See
                a and a and b     a and b a and b  a         d         note d
                b
 
Notes:
   1.   With resident family and not to exceed 2 persons.
   2.   Excluding drive-through.
   3.   Provided actual dry cleaning is done off site.
   4.   Only from corner property line.
   5.   Minimum setback is permitted only when minimum separation to adjoining
buildings is maintained.
   6.   Single buildings permitted on multiple lots.
   7.   Standards in this article shall apply in lieu of county standards for
multi-family development.
   a.   Per Ada County standards.
   b.   Includes garaged spaces.
   c.   If use is determined not to be accessory, it is conditional.
   d.   None.
   •   Principal permitted use.
   A   Accessory use.
   C   Conditional permitted use.
   Blank   Blank space denotes use is not permitted.
In the event of a conflict between the land use summary table and the text of
this article, the text shall prevail.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH
FIGURE 8-3K(b) LAND USE SUMMARY TABLE
        Cartwright Ranch PC District
Allowed           Traditional Village Townhome Community Developed  Natural
Uses    View Lots Lots        Lots    Lots     Center    Open Space Open Space
                                               Lots      Lots       Lots
                Cartwright Ranch PC District
                                                  Community Developed Natural
Allowed Uses    View Traditional Village Townhome Center    Open      Open
                Lots Lots        Lots    Lots     Lots      Space     Space
                                                            Lots      Lots
Residential:
  Accessory
 structure,    A    A           A       A
  attached or
  detached
 Condominium   •  •         •     •
 Convalescent                           •
  home
 Duplex                                 •
  dwelling
 Model home    •  •         •     •
 Multi-family  •  •         •     •
  dwelling 6
 Rental        •  •         •     •
  apartment
 Single-family •  •         •     •
  dwelling
 Storage       A    A           A       A        A         A         C
  structure
 Temporary     •  •         •     •      •
  sales office
Business:
 Bank branch                            •      •
  office2
 Bar                                    •
  Bed and
 breakfast     C    C           C       •
  establishment
 Clinic                                 •
  Dry cleaning
 and                                    •
  laundry2,3
 Home          A    A           A       A
  occupation
  Office:
 business and       •         •     •      •
  professional
 Park and ride                          •      •
  facility
 Parking area                           •      •       •       C
  or lot
 Parking                                •
  structure
  Personal
 service                                •
  retail
 Restaurant4                            •      •
 Retail store2                          •
 Roomer or     A    A           A       A
  boarder1
 Service                                C
  station
 Spa or health                  •     •      •
  retreat
  University
  related
 research/                              •      •
  cultural
  facility
  All other
  retail and
  commercial
 uses                                   C
  compatible
  with stated
  uses
Community support uses6:
 Cell tower    C    C           C       C        C         C         C
 Community                      •     •      •
  center
 Family        •  •         •     •
  daycare home
  Fire
  protection,
  law
 enforcement                    •     •      •
  and emergency
  medical
  facility
 Group daycare                          •
  home
 Health club   C    C           •     •      •
  facility
 Library                        •     •      •
  Place of
 public                         •     •      •
  worship
 Public        C    C           C       C        •       Ac        Ac
  structure
  School,
 public or     •  •         •     •      •
  private
 Social hall,                   •     •      •
  club or lodge
  Utility
 structure,    C    C           C       C        •       •       •
  except cell
  tower
Agriculture:
 Agricultural  C    C           C       C        C         •       C
  operation
 Agricultural                           •                •       •
  outbuilding
  Nursery,
 retail or                              C
  greenhouse
Recreation:
 Golf practice                                   •       •
  facility
 Park          •  •         •     •      •       •       C
 Recreation                                      •       •
  facility
 Swimming pool A    A           A       •      •       •
 Tennis court  A    A           A       •      •       •
 Trail                                           •       •       •
 
Notes:
   1.   With resident family and not to exceed 2 persons.
   2.   Excluding drive-through.
   3.   Provided actual dry cleaning is done off site.
   4.   Only from corner property line.
   5.   Minimum setback is permitted only when minimum separation to adjoining
buildings is maintained.
   6.   Single buildings permitted on multiple lots.
   7.   Standards in this article shall apply in lieu of county standards for
multi-family development.
   a.   Per Ada County standards.
   b.   Includes garaged spaces.
   c.   If use is determined not to be accessory, it is conditional.
   d.   None.
   •   Principal permitted use.
   A   Accessory use.
   C   Conditional permitted use.
   Blank   Blank space denotes use is not permitted.
In the event of a conflict between the land use summary table and the text of
this article, the text shall prevail.
(Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-6: ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: Prior to approval of any preliminary plat for
Cartwright Ranch, the board must determine that the plat complies with this
Cartwright Ranch zoning ordinance and is in accordance with the Cartwright
Ranch comprehensive plan.
   B.   Building Permits And Grading Permits: Building permits and grading
permits within Cartwright Ranch shall be issued in accordance with the Ada
County building code ordinance; provided, however, that no building or grading
permit shall be issued to an applicant until such time as the applicant has
provided to the county: 1) a decision issued by Cartwright Ranch design review
committee in conformance with the Cartwright Ranch design guidelines approving
or denying the proposed building, site, or landscape improvements for which the
building permit or grading permit is being sought, 2) a permit from the
applicable sewer authority, and 3) proof of payment of applicable impact fees
to the Ada County highway district. If the Cartwright Ranch design review
committee denies a proposed improvement (which decision must include a written
explanation for the denial), or fails to respond within a reasonable period of
time, then Ada County may issue a permit if the director determines, in the
exercise of his or her discretion, that the committee's decision is illegal or
improper.
   C.   Zoning Certificate: A zoning certificate shall be required for all uses
within Cartwright Ranch and shall be issued in conformance with the
requirements of the Ada County zoning ordinance.
   D.   Conditional Uses: Conditional uses within Cartwright Ranch may only be
permitted with a conditional use permit issued in accordance with the
conditional use standards in the Ada County zoning ordinance.
   E.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses within Cartwright Ranch shall be
reviewed in accord with the procedures of the Ada County zoning ordinance.
   F.   Public Community Event Permit Approval Process: Public community events
within Cartwright Ranch shall require approval by the Cartwright Ranch property
owners' association and shall otherwise be exempt from any Ada County approval
requirements. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-7: SETBACKS; STRUCTURAL AND SPATIAL REQUIREMENTS:
See section
8-3K-5,
figure 8-3K(a) of this article. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-8: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability: Except as set forth in this article, Cartwright Ranch
shall be exempt from the landscaping requirements of this title.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   All landscaping on individual lots within Cartwright Ranch shall
conform to the following standards:
         a.   Landscape improvements shall incorporate, rehabilitate and
enhance the existing site, incorporate indigenous species and minimize areas of
intensive irrigation.
         b.   Landscape plantings should consist of at least two (2) different
varieties and types in order to create a more unified rather than fragmented
landscape.
         c.   Landscaping will be used to establish a clear and logical
orientation to the neighborhoods and open space areas within Cartwright Ranch,
including the following areas:
            (1)   Entry areas from Cartwright Road to the community will be
characterized by open, country roads lined with native grasses punctuated by
select plantings of deciduous tree groves that will reinforce the entries as
community gateways.
            (2)   Riparian areas along Dry Creek will be characterized by
naturalistic placement of trees and shrubs that will enhance and replicate the
existing riparian environment while providing wildlife habitat.
            (3)   Natural open space lots will remain in their natural state or
selectively enhanced as appropriate to the land and wildlife management
parameters of the project.
            (4)   Town Center lots will include traditional street trees in
planting strips and medians with front and rear yard domestic gardens in
residential and commercial lots.
            (5)   View lots will include irrigated landscape envelopes that
contrast with enhanced native shrubs and grasses outside those envelopes.
      2.   All landscaping improvements within the right of way of local,
collector and arterial streets within Cartwright Ranch shall conform to the
standards in subelement F5 (roadway design) and subelement F9 (landscape
standards) of the Cartwright Ranch development plan, and shall conform to the
following standards:
         a.   Along streets with curb, gutter and sidewalk, trees shall be
provided with a minimum spacing of fifty feet (50').
         b.   Along streets without curb, gutter and sidewalk, other plantings
shall be provided as appropriate with the topography and site.
   C.   Process: No final plat shall be approved until such time as the
applicant has provided a landscape plan to Ada County, for review and approval,
of proposed landscaping within road rights of way or common areas. The
landscape plan shall contain the following:
      1.   The location, size, and type of all proposed landscaping materials
(including specific references as to the species of plant materials), and
verification that minimum landscaping requirements have been satisfied. All
plants shall be shown at seventy five percent (75%) mature growth.
      2.   Existing vegetation to be saved shall be identified on the
landscaping plan along with protection measures to be used during grading and
construction. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-9: OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to encourage well designed open
space at Cartwright Ranch.
   B.   Applicability: These regulations shall apply to open space lots within
Cartwright Ranch.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: In approving each preliminary plat within
Cartwright Ranch, the board shall determine that the plat is in accordance with
the open space parks and trails plan, which is part of the Cartwright Ranch
development plan attached to the Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan, with
consideration of the flexibility provisions of this article and the plan.
      2.   Allowed Open Space Uses: Allowable uses on open space lots shall
include, but not be limited to, the uses set forth in section
8-3K-5,
figure 8-3K(b) of this article and otherwise described in this article.
   D.   Design Standards:
      1.   The design shall be consistent with Cartwright Ranch comprehensive
plan and other adopted regional or local open space and recreation plans
including the Ada County ridge to rivers pathway plan.
      2.   All open space lots shall be accessible to residents of Cartwright
Ranch.
      3.   The number of private or public roadways that divide open space lots
shall be limited to those necessary for proper traffic circulation, and the
roadways shall not detract from the efficient use of the open space.
      4.   Open space lots shall be free of all structures, except those that
enhance the use of the open space including, but not limited to, structures
related to outdoor recreational use, structures of historic and/or cultural
significance, educational buildings, well houses, utilities, infrastructure and
facilities, and stormwater retention basins.
      5.   No more than ten percent (10%) of the total open space in Cartwright
Ranch shall be impervious surface.
      6.   Open space lots shall be connected to open space areas on
neighboring properties wherever possible including provisions for pedestrian
walkways to create linked walkway or pathway systems. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-10: STREET FRONTAGE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
See section
8-3K-5,
figure 8-3K(a) of this article. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-11: SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability: Except as set forth in this article, Cartwright Ranch
shall be exempt from the sign requirements of this title.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   All signs within Cartwright Ranch shall conform to the following
standards:
         a.   Freestanding signs should be in proportion/scale to the
surrounding elements.
         b.   Identification signs will be provided at project entrances and
appropriately illuminated by indirect and screened or ground mounted lighting.
         c.   Commercial signs shall be small and subdued to respect the
residential character of the community; maximum commercial sign size is thirty
two (32) square feet per side.
         d.   The following signs are prohibited:
            (1)   Signs that constitute a hazard to traffic or pedestrians;
            (2)   Signs located within any stream or drainage channel;
            (3)   Mobile signs or portable signs; balloons, flags or kite style
signs;
            (4)   Inflatable signs;
            (5)   Signs that produce odor, sound, smoke, flame or other
emissions;
            (6)   Signs that imitate or simulate official signs or that use
yellow or red blinking or intermittent lights resembling danger or warning
signals;
            (7)   Signs using strobe lights or individual light bulbs exceeding
seventy five (75) watts;
            (8)   Signs on public property or right of way or signs attached to
utility poles, streetlights, fences, barns, sheds, or similar structures; and
            (9)   Roof signs and billboards. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-12: ON AND OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
All parking shall meet federal Americans with disabilities act (ADA)
requirements and shall be in accordance with the parking provisions of this
title, except as set forth in section
8-3K-5,
figure 8-3K(a) of this article or elsewhere in this article. (Ord. 739, 2-10-
2010)
8-3K-13: STANDARDS FOR ENERGY AND WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   All development within Cartwright Ranch shall conform to the following
standards:
      1.   Indoor Water And Energy Use:
         a.   Water heaters will be energy star qualified or have equivalent
performance specifications.
         b.   Cooling equipment will consist of energy star qualified air
conditioning unit or heat pump or have equivalent performance specifications.
         c.   Heating equipment will consist of energy star qualified gas
furnace, heat pump or boiler or have equivalent performance specifications.
         d.   At least three (3) energy star labeled light fixtures or energy
star labeled compact fluorescent light bulbs will be installed.
         e.   Windows will be energy star qualified or have equivalent
performance specifications.
      2.   Outdoor Water And Energy Use:
         a.   Turf areas will be zoned separately from other planted beds,
based on watering needs. A timer/controller will activate valves for each
watering zone.
         b.   View lots will concentrate irrigated landscaping within landscape
envelopes. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-14: GRADING REQUIREMENTS:
Grading within Cartwright Ranch shall be in conformance with this title and
title 7, chapter 2, "Building Codes", of this code. Grading on slopes greater
than fifteen percent (15%) shall comply with the hillside adaptive grading
standards found in Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan policies CR 5.3-2, CR
6.1-1, and 12.1-2. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-15: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES AND SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   All structures and site improvements within Cartwright Ranch shall be
consistent with Cartwright Ranch comprehensive plan objectives CR 8.3 and CR
12.2, and the following standards:
      1.   The visual bulk of hillside residential development should be
reduced so structures do not standout prominently when seen from a distance.
      2.   Building form should conform to site topography and not overshadow
natural site features.
      3.   Step structures with slope, and cut into hillsides should be
utilized to reduce visual bulk.
      4.   Building height should be minimized on highly visible ridge areas by
avoiding multi-story houses that "skyline" on ridges and by locating
residential buildings so as not to impact views near ridges.
      5.   No adjacent single-family detached home will be permitted to have
the same plan, elevation or color.
      6.   Homes in village lots shall provide rear entry garages where access
is provided.
      7.   Wood shake roofs are prohibited.
      8.   On view lots, building materials and color schemes should blend with
the natural landscape of earth tones and grassland vegetation but minimize fuel
potential for wildfires.
      9.   Buildings, accessory structures, fences, etc., shall be oriented to
minimize impact on views and adjacent uses.
      10.   Mechanical equipment on roofs, aboveground transformers, satellite
dishes, active solar panels, utility equipment and loading, service and storage
areas shall be screened from view from the streets, pathways, public areas and
adjacent uses.
      11.   Trash enclosures and maintenance structures shall be designed to be
compatible in style, materials and colors with the main building and shall be
of masonry type construction. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
8-3K-16: AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this article shall be in accordance to section
8-7-3 of this title. (Ord. 739, 2-10-2010)
ARTICLE L. RESERVED
(Ord. 777, 5-11-2011)
ARTICLE M. RESERVED
(Ord. 784, 6-8-2011)
ARTICLE N. DRY CREEK RANCH PLANNED COMMUNITY
SECTION:
8-3N-1: Short Title
8-3N-2: Purpose And Intent
8-3N-3: Applicability
8-3N-4: Definitions
8-3N-5: Land Use Districts
8-3N-6: Land Use Regulations
8-3N-7: Administrative Regulations
8-3N-8: Specific Use Standards
8-3N-8-1: Amusement Or Recreation Facility, Outdoor
8-3N-8-2: Bar, Brewpub Or Nightclub
8-3N-8-3: Bed And Breakfast Establishment
8-3N-8-4: Business Park
8-3N-8-5: Car Wash
8-3N-8-6: Community Center
8-3N-8-7: Community Information Center
8-3N-8-8: Drugstore
8-3N-8-9: Dwelling, Accessory
8-3N-8-10: Dwelling, Live/Work
8-3N-8-11: Fence, Open
8-3N-8-12: Fence, Solid
8-3N-8-13: Health Club Facility
8-3N-8-14: Hospital
8-3N-8-15: Hospital, Large Animal
8-3N-8-16: Hospital, Small Animal
8-3N-8-17: Public Or Quasi-Public Use
8-3N-8-18: Restaurant Or Eating Place
8-3N-8-19: Restaurant, Outdoor
8-3N-8-20: Retail, Lifestyle Center
8-3N-8-21: Retail Sales, Relating To An Approved Use
8-3N-8-22: School, Public Or Private
8-3N-8-23: School, Vocational Or Trade
8-3N-8-24: School, University
8-3N-8-25: Shopping Center, Community Commercial
8-3N-8-26: Shopping Center, Convenience Commercial
8-3N-8-27: Shopping Center, Neighborhood Commercial
8-3N-8-28: Shopping Center, Regional Commercial
8-3N-8-29: Stable, Private
8-3N-8-30: Water Tower
8-3N-8-31: Winery
8-3N-9: Open Space
8-3N-10: Sign Requirements
8-3N-11: On- And Off-Street Parking
8-3N-12: Standards For Energy And Water Conservation
8-3N-13: Grading Requirements
8-3N-14: Design Standards For Structures And Site Improvements
8-3N-15: Frontage And Access
8-3N-16: Easements
8-3N-17: Landscaping
8-3N-18: Amendments
8-3N-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known, cited and referred to as the DRY CREEK RANCH
PLANNED COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Generally, this article is enacted with the purpose and intent of promoting, on
behalf of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community, public health, safety, comfort
and general welfare; to conserve and control the population density and to
facilitate adequate and economical provisions for public improvements, all in
accordance with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan for the desirable future
physical development of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community; all as
authorized by the Ada County Comprehensive Plan, the Ada County zoning
ordinance, the State statutes and the Constitution of the State.
Specifically, the purpose and intent of this article is to set forth the
development standards for implementing the land use policies of the Dry Creek
Ranch Comprehensive Plan. This article shall be consistent with the adopted Dry
Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. Furthermore, it is the purpose of this article
to:
   A.   Provide for the design of quality, mixed use development within the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community;
   B.   Provide distinctive, efficient and effective standards to guide
development in the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community;
   C.   Allow flexibility and creativity for reconfiguration of residential and
nonresidential uses and/or population density as long as these reconfigurations
do not conflict with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan and this article;
   D.   Provide for the integration and balance of a variety of uses in the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community; and
   E.   Identify and define standards for uses which may occur in each of the
land use categories. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-3: APPLICABILITY:
This article governs the development of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community,
as shown on the Dry Creek Ranch Land Use Map found in the Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan. Where this article specifically references other sections
of this Code, such other sections of said Code shall apply and govern. This
article shall not apply to any land not incorporated within the Dry Creek Ranch
Planned Community boundary. Land outside the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community
may be annexed per the Dry Creek Ranch development agreement and this Code, as
applicable.
   A.   Scope And Content: For the purpose of administration and enforcement,
the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community Land Use Map as adopted by Ada County
shall be considered as the official land use map.
   B.   Flexibility: The development standards contained in the Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan and this article depict the general nature and relative
intensity of residential and nonresidential development in the Dry Creek Ranch
Planned Community, while allowing sufficient flexibility at the time of
detailed planning and platting so that the overall goals, and policies of the
Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan can be achieved. The configuration and
densities of development parcels and phases may be altered to accommodate site
and other conditions and revisions to the project's implementation strategy
providing that the reconfiguration does not conflict with the land use map,
specific restrictions contained within section
8-3N-5 of this article, or the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan and this
article. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation of the Dry Creek
Ranch zoning ordinance. Any term used in this article not defined herein, shall
have the meaning set forth in chapter 1, article A of this title. Any term not
defined herein or in chapter 1, article A of this title, shall have its plain
and ordinary meaning.
ACTIVE ADULT COMMUNITY: An age-restricted development, which may be in any
housing form, including detached and attached dwelling units, apartments,
condominiums and residences, offering private and semi-private rooms.
ALLEY, DRY CREEK RANCH: A service roadway that may be public or private,
providing a means of access to an abutting property and may be utilized for
general traffic circulation. An alley may also provide required frontage to a
building lot.
BULK: A building's shape, size, and mass. Often expressed and determined by its
floor area ratio (FAR).
BUSINESS PARK: A development on a tract of land that contains a number of
separate office structures, with accessory and supporting uses, and open space
designed, planned, constructed and managed on an integrated and coordinated
basis.
COMMON DRIVEWAY: An access shared by adjacent property owners that is privately
owned and maintained.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A structure or structures utilized for recreational, social,
educational and cultural activities by Dry Creek Ranch residents.
COMMUNITY INFORMATION CENTER: A temporary structure, administrative facilities,
and parking area principally used as an information pavilion and/or office for
the sale of homes in the community.
DESIGN GUIDELINES: Sub-Element F-9 of the currently adopted Dry Creek Ranch
Development Plan on file with the Ada County Development Services Department.
DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE (DRC): The Design Review Committee for the Dry Creek
Ranch Planned Community created in accord with the requirements established in
the recorded covenants, conditions and restrictions for the Dry Creek Ranch
Planned Community.
DRUGSTORE: A store where the primary business is the filling of medical
prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies and
nonprescription medicines but where non-medical products may be sold as well.
DRY CREEK RANCH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan
consists of the vision, goals, objectives, policies, and maps as adopted by the
Board, and serves as a guide for development of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned
Community. The Dry Creek Ranch Development Plan and economic impact analyses
are included as addenda to the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. A copy of
the approved Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan with addenda is on file with
the Ada County Development Services Department.
DRY CREEK RANCH DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The Dry Creek Ranch Development Plan includes
a) a natural features map and analysis, b) a narrative describing the proposed
land uses and design of the project, c) a map showing existing land uses within
one mile of the project site, d) a narrative assessment of development and
population trends in Ada County, e) a transportation and mobility plan, f) a
community services and utilities plan, g) an open space, parks and trails plan,
h) a wildlife mitigation plan, i) narrative and examples of proposed central
design concepts, j) a phasing plan, k) a letter from the public-school entity
who receives the designated school site from Dry Creek Ranch that indicates how
it will meet the district needs, and l) a Storm water management plan and
narrative. The Dry Creek Ranch Development Plan is on file with the Ada County
Development Services Department.
DRY CREEK RANCH LAND USE MAP: A map identifying land use designations and/or
land use districts within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and found in
the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community Comprehensive Plan.
DRY CREEK RANCH, OPEN-SPACE: See definition of open-space.
DRY CREEK RANCH OR THE DRY CREEK RANCH PLANNED COMMUNITY: That area depicted as
such on the Dry Creek Ranch Land Use Map and Ada County Zoning Map.
DRY CREEK RANCH PROPERTY OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The Idaho nonprofit or for-profit
corporation whose members or stockholders consist exclusively of property
owners within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and whose purpose is to
provide for the administration and governance of the affairs of the Dry Creek
Ranch in accordance with the covenants and restrictions of Dry Creek Ranch.
DWELLING, ACCESSORY:
   A.   An independent dwelling unit that has been added onto or created within
a single-family dwelling;
   B.   A dwelling unit that is located in a completely separate structure on
the same lot as the principal dwelling and is subordinate to the principal
dwelling, such as a guesthouse.
DWELLING, LIVE/WORK: A residential use type that combines a dwelling and a
commercial space under single ownership in a structure.
DWELLING, LOFT: A residential dwelling unit located above a non- residential
use.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence constructed with openings between the materials used in
its construction.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including gates, constructed of solid material, wood or
masonry through which no visual images may be seen.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Eagle Fire District.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The sum of the horizontal areas of the several floors
inside the exterior walls of a building or portion thereof, divided by the lot
area.
FRONTAGE, DRY CREEK RANCH: That side of a lot abutting either a public or
private street or alleyway.
GREENWAY:
   A.   A linear open space established along either a natural corridor, such
as waterway, ridgeline, scenic roadway or other route;
   B.   Any natural or landscaped course for pedestrian, equestrian or bicycle
passage;
   C.   An open-space connector linking parks, community gardens, natural
spaces, cultural features or historic sites with each other and with populated
areas;
   D.   Locally, certain strip or linear parks designated as a parkway or
greenbelt; or
   E.   Any man-made linear open space along a canal, lateral or ditch.
Greenways shall be considered "developed open space".
HEALTH CLUB FACILITY: An establishment that provides facilities for aerobic
exercise, running and jogging, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming
facilities, saunas, therapeutic massage, lockers, showers, personal training
and nutritional services and products.
HOSPITAL, LARGE ANIMAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for
the care of the following animals: cattle, sheep, goats, horses, hogs, large
exotic cats or similar animals.
HOSPITAL, SMALL ANIMAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for
the care of the following animals: dogs, cats, primates, birds, water fowl,
reptiles, rodents and similar animals.
LANDSCAPE PLAN: A component of a development plan on which are shown: proposed
landscape species (such as number, spacing, size at time of planting and
planting details); proposals for protection of existing vegetation during and
after construction; proposed treatment of hard and soft surfaces; proposed
decorative features; grade changes and buffers and screening devices.
LARGE ANIMAL GROOMING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
grooming of the following animals: cattle, sheep, goats, horses, hogs, large
exotic cats or similar animals.
LOT, CORNER: A lot or parcel abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of
the same street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°). The point of intersection of the street lines is the "corner".
LOT, FLAG: A lot where access to the public or private road is by a private
right-of-way or driveway. Minimum lot frontage for flag lots shall be as
specified in section
8-3N-5, table 8-3N-5D of this article.
MEW: Dwelling units built around a common open space area or court where the
units face the open space area and are generally not accessed from a public
street.
MODEL HOME: A single-family dwelling which is shown to prospective buyers of
lots or dwellings for the purpose of promoting the retail sale of lots or
dwellings within Dry Creek Ranch.
OPEN-SPACE: An open area used for passive or active recreation by the residents
of Dry Creek Ranch or for conservation.
OPEN-SPACE, DEVELOPED: An open area for human activities that range from
recreation activities to pastimes. Developed open space includes those parcels
of property, such as roadway medians, which are improved and landscaped. Parks,
pathways, and trailways shall be considered developed open space.
OPEN-SPACE, NATURAL: An open space area generally not occupied by any
structures. These open spaces may include pathways, and trailways with or
without pavement, wayfinding and/or interpretative signage.
PARKWAY: A landscaped area located between the edge of a street section or curb
and a sidewalk dedicated to separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
PATHWAY: A clear way for pedestrians; equestrians or bicyclists that may or may
not be improved.
RESTAURANT, OUTDOOR: Any part of a food establishment located outdoors, not
used for any other purposes, open to the sky, with the exception that it may
have retractable awning or umbrellas, and may contain furniture including:
tables; chairs; railings and planters.
SHOPPING CENTER, CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL: A small shopping center that typically
features an approximately two thousand five hundred (2,500) square foot
groceries/sundries store as an anchor tenant and may also provide other
services such as gasoline sales, dry cleaners, coffee shop, dentist office,
beauty shop, day care, etc. A convenience shopping center may have an average
building area ranging from fifteen thousand (15,000) to thirty five thousand
(35,000) square feet and occupy one (1) to three (3) acres.
SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL: A moderate sized shopping center
planned and developed as a unit, typically composed of a grocery up to sixty
thousand (60,000) square feet in size, and usually containing additional
smaller tenants serving a local market area. A neighborhood shopping center may
have a gross floor area ranging from thirty five thousand (35,000) to one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet and may occupy up to ten (10) acres.
SMALL ANIMAL GROOMING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
grooming of the following animals: dogs, cats, primates, birds, water fowl,
reptiles, rodents and similar animals.
STABLE, BOARDING: A structure designed for the feeding, housing and exercising
of horses not owned by the owner of the premises for which the owner of the
premises may receive compensation.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping of
one (1) or more horses or cows owned and used by the occupant of the premises
and not for remuneration, hire or sale.
STREET, ISLAND, DRY CREEK RANCH: A landscape island located within or
surrounded by public or private street right-of-way.
STREET, KNUCKLE, DRY CREEK RANCH: An expansion of a local street typically
around curves providing access to abutting properties and enlarged turning
movement.
STREET, PRIVATE, DRY CREEK RANCH: A street approved by Ada County, which
provides both access and street frontage for individual lots. Private streets
are to be owned and maintained by the Dry Creek Ranch Property Owners'
Association.
SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE, DRY CREEK RANCH: A final plat located within the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community shall be deemed to be in substantial conformance
with the approved preliminary plat when:
   A.   1.   The proposed lots have a twenty-five percent (25%) or less
deviation in the dimensional standards;
      2.   The proposed lots meet the dimensional standards of the base zoning
district; and
      3.   The entire Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community (1, 414 acres) does not
exceed the overall residential lot count of one thousand eight hundred fifteen
(1,815) residential lots; or
   B.   1.   The widths of the proposed lots immediately adjacent to existing
recorded lots are the same size or larger as the lots shown on the preliminary
plat or the lot widths are the same size or larger as the lots shown on the
preliminary plat or the lot widths are the same size or larger than the
existing adjacent recorded lots;
      2.   The proposed lots meet the dimensional standards of the base zoning
district; and
      3.   The entire Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community (1,414 acres) does not
exceed the approved overall residential lot count of one thousand eight hundred
fifteen (1,815) residential lots.
TREES, CLASS I, II, III: The classes of trees are defined for the purposes of
this title by the publication Tree Selection Guide for Streets and Landscapes
Throughout Idaho. In general, Class I trees are smaller ornamental trees, Class
II trees are medium/large trees appropriate for street tree planting, and Class
III trees are very large trees.
WATER TOWER: A water storage facility, usually above ground.
XERISCAPE: Landscaping that is characterized by the use of vegetation that is
drought tolerant or of low water use in character.
(Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017; Ord. 952, 5-10-2023; Ord. 980,
8-27-2024)
8-3N-5: LAND USE DISTRICTS:
The purpose of this section is to implement the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive
Plan. These districts are intended to provide appropriate density for
residential, commercial, open space and other development based on the Dry
Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
The Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan depicts the general nature and relative
intensity of residential and nonresidential land use districts subject to the
appropriate flexibility discussed elsewhere in this article.
   A.   Land Use Districts: It is the purpose of these districts to provide
regulations and standards for development of residential; mixed-use;
commercial; village center development in a variety of typologies including but
not limited to single-family detached dwellings; zero-lot line developments of
single-family detached dwellings; single-family attached dwellings, duplexes,
townhouses and multi-family dwellings; office; retail; and neighborhood
commercial where a municipal wastewater collection and treatment system and
community water system are provided. A general description of the allowed uses
within each district is provided below. For a detailed list of allowed uses see
section
8-3N-6, tables
8-3N-6A and
8-3N-6B of this article and for dimensional standards see table 8-3N-5D of this
section.
The Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community is divided into the following land use
districts as shown on the land use map contained in the Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan and in Figures B-3.a, B-3.b, and B-3.c of the Dry Creek
Ranch Development Plan.
Gross and net density calculations for individual development areas within the
project may be calculated with decimal figures. Gross and net density
calculations for the entire property shall be rounded to the nearest whole
number.
Equestrian District: The Equestrian District allows for a gross density between
0.5 and 3.5 dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-family
detached dwellings.
Hillside District: The Hillside District allows for a gross density between 1.5
and 5.5 dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-family
detached dwellings, single-family attached dwellings, duplexes, and townhouses.
Low Density District: The Low Density District allows for a gross density
between 2.5 and 4.0 dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-
family detached dwellings, single-family attached dwellings, duplexes, and
townhouses.
Medium Density District: The Medium Density District allows for a gross density
between 4.0 and 7.0 dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-
family detached dwellings, single-family attached dwellings, duplexes, and
townhouses.
Mixed-Use District: The Mixed-Use District provides for a wide range of
commercial, office, retail, industrial, and residential uses that allow
property owners the flexibility to respond to the long-term evolution of
development trends. All uses and structures will be sited and designed to be
compatible with one another with a variety of complementary and integrated uses
such as: various single-family and multi-family residential uses with gross
densities of 1.0 to 20.0 dwelling units per acre. A minimum of twenty five
percent (25%) of the Mixed-Use District shall be devoted to multi-family
residential uses at a density range of between seven (7) to twenty (20)
dwelling units per acre. Only fifty percent (50%) of the Mixed-Use District
shall be residential uses. Other permitted uses include civic, office
(including a business park), neighborhood retail, public and quasi- public use,
and recreation in a compact, urban form. This district is intended to provide
creativity and flexibility in planning and design of buildings and encourages
both vertical and horizontal mixing of uses.
Village Center District: The Village Center Districts allow uses that promote
the farm-to-table concept of Dry Creek, including community gardens, orchards,
and small-scale nurseries that may take advantage of existing geothermal
resources in the community. The Village Center Districts will also provide
recreational opportunities, including riding arenas, sports fields,
amphitheaters, clubhouses, and pools, as illustrated in the Dry Creek Ranch
Development Plan. The Village Center District will also allow for limited
commercial uses, as further set forth in section
8-3N-6, table
8-3N-6B of this article.
Park District: The Park District allows for the ability to provide developed
open space, including active and passive uses. Areas designated as park areas
are intended to provide both active and passive recreational opportunities.
Park area uses include, but are not limited to: neighborhood and community
parks; trail systems; greenbelts along Dry Creek and Spring Valley Creek;
parkways; village park(s); community gardens; outdoor amphitheaters and
interpretative centers.
Institutional/School Site District: The Institutional/School Site District
allows a public use, such as a religious building; library; public or private
school; hospital; or government-owned or operated building, structure or land
used for public purpose.
Natural Open Space District: The Natural Open Space District allows for
protection of natural or enhanced areas that are environmentally sensitive
areas with characteristics such as steep slopes, habitat or areas of
significant biological productivity or uniqueness that have been designated for
protection. This district shall be thought of as natural open space for the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community. However, paths; trails, both paved and unpaved;
along with interpretative signage shall be allowed within this district.
Commercial District: The Commercial District allows for neighborhood or
convenience commercial opportunities that will serve residents of the Dry Creek
Ranch Planned Community and other surrounding developments.
TABLE 8-3N-5D
DRY CREEK RANCH DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BY LAND USE DISTRICT
Dimensional Standards Land Use Designations - Single Family Residential
                      Equestrian Hillside Low Medium
                                                      Land Use Designations - Single
Dimensional Standards                                 Family Residential
                                                      Equestrian Hillside Low     Medium
Density (dwelling units/gross acre)                   0.5 - 3.5  1.5 -    2.5 -   4.0 -
                                                                 5.5      4.0     7.0
Minimum lot size:                                                               
 Single-family detached dwelling                     13,000 sq. 8,000    8,000   4,000
                                                      ft.        sq. ft.  sq. ft. sq. ft.
 Other principal structure                           13,000 sq. 8,000    8,000   4,000
                                                      ft.        sq. ft.  sq. ft. sq. ft.
Minimum lot frontage 1:                                                         
 Interior lot                                        30'2       15'3     15'3    15'3
 Corner lot                                          35'        18'      18'     18'
Minimum setbacks:                                                               
 From front property line:                                                     
     Dwelling or principal structure             15'        10'      10'     10'
     Garage                                      20'        15'      15'     15'
 From rear property line:                                                      
     Dwelling or principal structure             10'        10'      10'     10'
     Garage                                      10'        10'      10'     10'
 From interior side property line4:                                            
     Detached dwelling or principal structure or 5'         5'       5'      3'
  garage
     Attached dwelling or principal structure or 0'         0'       0'      0'
  garage
 From street side property line:                                               
     Dwelling or principal structure or garage   10'        10'      10'     10'
Maximum coverage                                      No maximum No       No      No
                                                                 maximum  maximum maximum
Maximum impervious surface                            No maximum No       No      No
                                                                 maximum  maximum maximum
Maximum floor area ratio                              No maximum No       No      No
                                                                 maximum  maximum maximum
Maximum structure height                              40'        40'      40'     40'
 
   Notes:
      1.    See section
8-3N-15 of this article for minimum frontage when served by a common driveway.
      2.    Minimum frontage for flag lots shall be 15 feet.
      3.    Minimum frontage for flag lots shall be 10 feet.
      4.    A minimum distance of 6 feet shall be required between structures
on adjacent lots.
Dimensional Land Use Designations
Standards   Mixed Use Village Park Institutional/ Natural    Commercial
                      Center       School Site    Open Space
                                Land Use Designations
Dimensional Standards           Mixed   Village         Institutional/ Natural
                                Use     Center  Park    School Site    Open    Commercial
                                                                       Space
Density (dwelling units/gross   1.0 -   n/a     n/a     n/a            n/a     n/a
acre)                           20.0
Minimum lot size:                                                          
 Single-family detached        1,200   n/a     n/a     n/a            n/a     n/a
  dwelling                      sq. ft.
 Other principal structure     1,200   n/a     n/a     n/a            n/a     n/a
                                sq. ft.
Minimum lot frontage 1:                                                    
 Interior lot                  0'      0'      0'      20'            0'      0'
 Corner lot                    0'      0'      0'      20'            0'      0'
Minimum setbacks:                                                          
 From front property line:                                                
     Principal structure   0'      0'      n/a     20'            n/a     0'
     Accessory structure   0'      0'      n/a     20'            n/a     0'
 From rear property line:                                                 
     Principal structure   0'      0'      n/a     20'            n/a     0'
     Accessory structure   0'      0'      n/a     20'            n/a     0'
 From interior side property   0'      0'      n/a     10'            n/a     0'
  line
 From side street property     6'      6'      n/a     15'            n/a     n/a
  line
 From side property line                                                  
  adjacent to alley:
     Dwelling or principal 10'     10'     n/a     n/a            n/a     n/a
  structure
     Garage                0'      0'      n/a     n/a            n/a     n/a
Maximum coverage                No      No      No      No maximum     No      No maximum
                                maximum maximum maximum                maximum
Maximum impervious surface      No      No      15%     No maximum     10%     90%
                                maximum maximum
Maximum floor area ratio        No      No      No      No maximum     No      No maximum
                                maximum maximum maximum                maximum
Maximum structure height        60'     60'     60'     60'            65'     65'
 
Note:
   1.    See section
8-3N-15 of this article for minimum frontage when served by a common driveway.
(Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-6: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
Tables 8-3N-6A through 8-3N-6B of this section list allowed uses within each
land-use district. Approval of these uses shall follow the approval process
outlined in section
8-3N-7 of this article.
TABLE 8-3N-6A
ALLOWABLE USES IN THE DRY CREEK RANCH LAND USE DISTRICTS
Principal permitted (P); accessory (A); conditional (C); or prohibited (-) use
Use Equestrian Hillside Low Medium
Use                                            Equestrian Hillside Low Medium
Accessory structure                            A          A        A   A
Active adult community                         C          P        P   P
Agricultural structure                         A          -        -   -
Agricultural use                               P          -        -   -
Amusement or recreation facility, indoor       C          C        C   C
Amusement or recreation facility, outdoor      C          C        C   C
Animal boarding with outside runs              C          -        -   -
Animal clinic, animal hospital or veterinary   C          C        C   C
office
Automobile, major repair                       -          -        -   -
Bar, brew pub or nightclub                     -          -        -   -
Bed and breakfast establishment                C          C        C   C
Brewery or distillery                          -          -        -   -
Business park                                  -          -        -   -
Car wash                                       -          C        C   C
Church or place of worship                     C          C        C   C
Clinic, medical                                -          C        C   C
Club, lodge, or social hall                    -          C        C   C
Community center                               P          P        P   P
Community information center                   P          P        P   P
Daycare facility (more than 12 children)       C          C        C   C
Daycare home, family (6 or fewer children)     A          A        A   A
Daycare home, group (7 - 12 children)          A          A        A   A
Drive up window service                        -          -        -   -
Drugstore                                      -          -        -   -
Duplex or single-family attached dwelling      -          P        P   P
Dwelling, accessory                            A          A        A   A
Dwelling, caretaker for an approved use        A          A        A   A
Dwelling, live/work                            -          -        -   -
Dwelling, loft                                 -          -        -   -
Dwelling, multi-family                         -          -        -   -
Dwelling, secondary attached or detached       A          A        A   A
Dwelling, single family attached               -          P        P   P
Dwelling, single family detached               P          P        P   P
Farm, garden, lumber, or building supply store -          -        -   -
Fence, open (no barbed wire)                   P          P        P   P
Fence, solid                                   P          P        P   P
Gasoline or diesel fuel sales facility         -          -        -   -
Health club facility                           -          C        C   C
Home occupation                                A          A        A   A
Hospital                                       -          -        -   -
Hospital, large animal                         C          -        -   -
Hospital, small animal                         C          C        C   C
Hotel or motel                                 -          -        -   -
Kennel, commercial                             -          -        -   -
Kennel, hobby                                  A          A        A   A
Large animal grooming                          C          C        C   C
Laundromat                                     -          -        -   -
Model home                                     P          P        P   P
Nursery, wholesale or retail                   C          C        C   C
Nursing facility, skilled                      C          C        C   C
Off-street parking facility                    P          P        P   P
Office, related to an approved use             A          A        A   A
Office, temporary construction                 A          A        A   A
Outdoor storage                                A          A        A   A
Package and letter delivery service            -          -        -   -
Personal, business or professional services    -          -        -   -
Portable classroom                             -          -        -   -
Public or quasi public use 1                   C          C        C   C
Radio and television broadcasting station      -          -        -   -
Recycling center                               -          -        -   -
Research and development facility              -          -        -   -
Residential care facility                      C          C        C   C
Restaurant or eating place                     -          -        -   C
Restaurant, outdoor                            -          -        -   C
Retail sales, relating to an approved use      A          A        A   A
Retail store                                   -          C        C   C
School, public or private                      C          C        C   C
School, university                             -          C        C   C
School, vocational or trade                    C          C        C   C
Shopping center, convenience commercial        -          -        -   -
Shopping center, neighborhood commercial       -          -        -   -
Signs, non-accessory, off premises             -          -        -   -
Small animal grooming                          C          C        C   C
Stable, boarding                               P          -        -   -
Stable or riding arena, commercial             P          -        -   -
Stable, private                                P          -        -   -
Storage facility, self service                 -          -        -   -
Studio                                         C          C        C   C
Swimming pool, private                         -          A        A   A
Swimming pool, public                          P          P        P   P
Tower or antenna structure, commercial         C          C        C   C
Tower or antenna structure, private            A          A        A   A
Transit facility                               C          P        P   P
Water tower                                    P          P        P   P
Winery                                         C          C        C   C
 
Note:
   1.    Wells, potable water, and wastewater treatment facilities are required
infrastructure considered in connection with the approval of the Dry Creek
Ranch zoning ordinance and development plan. Accordingly, no conditional use
review is required in connection with the construction of these facilities.
Administrative, staff-level review of site plans associated with such
facilities will be required at the time of building permit.
TABLE 8-3N-6B
ALLOWABLE USES IN THE DRY CREEK RANCH LAND USE DISTRICTS
Principal permitted (P); accessory (A); conditional (C); or prohibited (-) use
Use Mixed Use Village Center Park Natural    Institutional/ Commercial
                                  Open Space School Site
Use           Mixed Use Village Park Natural    Institutional/ Commercial
                        Center       Open Space School Site
Accessory     A         A       A    A          A              A
structure
Active adult  P         P       -    -          -              -
community
Agricultural  A         A       P    -          A              A
structure
Agricultural  P         P       P    -          -              -
use
Amusement or
recreation    C         P       -    -          -              P
facility,
indoor
Amusement or
recreation    C         P       P    -          P              C
facility,
outdoor
Animal
boarding with C         C       -    -          -              P
outside runs
Animal
clinic,
animal        P         P       -    -          -              P
hospital or
veterinary
office
Automobile,   C         -       -    -          -              C
major repair
Bar, brew pub P         P       -    -          -              P
or nightclub
Bed and
breakfast     P         C       -    -          -              P
establishment
Brewery or    P         P       -    -          -              P
distillery
Business park C         -       -    -          C              P
Car wash      A 1       -       -    -          -              P
Church or
place of      P         P       -    -          C              P
worship
Clinic,       P         P       -    -          -              P
medical
Club, lodge
or social     P         P       C    -          C              P
hall
Community     P         P       P    -          -              P
center
Community
information   P         P       P    -          C              P
center
Daycare
facility (12  P         P       -    -          -              P
or more
children)
Daycare home,
family (6 or  A         A       -    -          -              A
fewer
children)
Daycare home,
group (7 - 12 A         A       -    -          -              A
children)
Drive up
window        C         -       -    -          -              C
service
Drugstore     P         -       -    -          -              P
Duplex or
single-family P         -       -    -          -              -
attached
dwelling
Dwelling,     A         -       -    -          -              -
accessory
Dwelling,
caretaker of  A         -       -    -          -              A
an approved
use
Dwelling,     P         P       -    -          -              P
live/work
Dwelling,     P         -       -    -          -              P
loft
Dwelling,     P         -       -    -          -              C
multi-family
Dwelling,
secondary     A         -       -    -          -              A
attached or
detached
Dwelling,
single family P         -       -    -          -              -
attached
Dwelling,
single-family P         -       -    -          -              -
detached
Farm, garden,
lumber, or    C         C       -    -          -              P
building
supply store
Fence, open
(no barbed    A         A       A    A          A              A
wire)
Fence, solid  A         A       A    A          A              A
Gasoline or
diesel fuel   C         -       -    -          -              P
sales
facility
Health club   P         P       -    -          -              P
facility
Home
occupation,   A         A       -    -          -              -
large
Home
occupation,   A         A       -    -          -              -
small
Hospital      P         -       -    -          -              P
Hospital,     C         -       -    -          -              P
large animal
Hospital,     P         -       -    -          -              P
small animal
Hotel or      C         -       -    -          -              P
motel
Intermediate  P         -       -    -          -              P
care facility
Kennel,       P         -       -    -          -              P
commercial
Kennel, hobby A         -       -    -          -              -
Large animal  P         -       -    -          -              P
grooming
Laundromat    P         -       -    -          -              P
Model home    P         -       -    -          -              P
Nursery,
wholesale or  P         P       -    -          -              P
retail
Nursing
facility,     P         -       -    -          -              P
skilled
Off-street
parking       P         P       P    P          P              P
facility
Office,
related to an A         A       -    -          A              A
approved use
Office,
temporary     P         P       -    -          A              P
construction
Outdoor       P         P       -    -          A              P
storage
Package and
letter        P         P       -    -          -              P
delivery
service
Personal,
business or   P         P       -    -          -              P
professional
services
Portable      -         -       -    -          A              -
classroom
Public or
quasi public  P         P       P    C          P              P
use
Radio and
television    C         -       -    -          -              C
broadcast
station
Recycling     C         -       -    -          -              P
center
Research and
development   P         -       -    -          -              P
facility
Residential   P         -       -    -          -              C
care facility
Restaurant or P         P       -    -          -              P
eating place
Restaurant,   P         P       -    -          -              P
outdoor
Retail sales
relating to   A         A       -    -          -              A
an approved
use
Retail store  P         P       -    -          -              P
School,
public or     P         -       -    -          P              P
private
School,       P         -       -    -          P              P
university
School,
vocational or P         -       -    -          P              P
trade
Shopping
center,       P         P       -    -          -              P
convenience
commercial
Shopping
center,       P         P       -    -          -              P
neighborhood
commercial
Signs, non-
accessory,    C         C       -    -          C              P
off premises
Small animal  P         P       -    -          -              P
grooming
Stable,       P         -       -    -          P              P
boarding
Stable or
riding arena, P         P       -    -          P              P
commercial
Stable,       P         -       -    -          P              P
private
Storage
facility,     P         -       -    -          P              P
self service
Studio        P         -       -    -          -              P
Swimming      A         A       A    -          A              A
pool, private
Swimming      P         P       P    -          P              P
pool, public
Tower or
antenna       C         C       C    C          C              C
structure,
commercial
Tower or
antenna       A         A       -    -          A              A
structure,
private
Transit       P         P       P    -          P              P
facility
Water tower   P         P       P    P          P              P
Winery        P         P       -    -          -              P
 
Note:
   1.    Accessory to gasoline or diesel fuel sales facility.
(Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-7: ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Principal permitted uses shall be reviewed in accordance with the
specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title and section
8-3N-8 of this article; the master site plan standards of chapter 4, article E
of this title, unless specifically exempt under subsection
8-4E-2B of this title; and with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Accessory uses shall be reviewed in accordance with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title; the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title
and section
8-3N-8 of this article; the accessory use regulations of chapter 5, article A
of this title and table
8-3N-7 of this section; and with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accordance with the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title; the specific use standards in chapter 5 of this title
and section
8-3N-8 of this article; the conditional use regulations of chapter 5, article B
of this title; and with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   The development of any allowable use within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned
Community requires a zoning certificate in accordance with section
8-7-1 of this title. A zoning certificate will not be issued until such time as
the applicant has provided to the County a design review letter issued by the
Dry Creek Ranch Design Review Committee (DRC) stating that the plan complies
with the design guidelines of the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. Ada
County may issue a zoning certificate if the DRC fails to respond to an
application within a reasonable period of time.
   E.   Prior to approval of any preliminary plat for Dry Creek Ranch, the
Board must find that the plat is in accordance with the Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan.
   F.   Building permits and grading permits shall be issued in accordance with
Ada County Building Code; provided however, that no building or grading permit
shall be issued to an applicant until such time as the applicant has provided
to the County: 1) a design review letter issued by the Dry Creek Ranch Design
Review Committee recommending approval, denial, or conditional approval, of the
proposed building improvements and/or grading for which the building permit or
grading permit is being sought.
TABLE 8-3N-71
ACCESSORY USES AND REQUIRED APPROVAL
              Required Approval
Accessory Use Zoning      Administrative
              Certificate Approval
                                          Required Approval
Accessory Use                             Zoning      Administrative
                                          Certificate Approval
Accessory structure (over 1,500 sq. ft.)  Yes         Yes
Accessory structure (under 1,500 sq. ft.) Yes         No
Car wash                                  Yes         Yes
Dwelling, accessory                       Yes         Yes
Dwelling, secondary attached or detached  Yes         Yes
Fence, open (no barbed wire)              No          No
Fence, solid                              No          No
Home occupation, large                    Yes         Yes
Home occupation, small                    Yes         No
Tower or antenna structure, private       Yes         Yes
 
Note:
      1.    This table supplements section
8-5A-2, table
8-5A-1 of this title.
(Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8: SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS:
The purpose of this section
8-3N-8 is to provide specific standards for all uses as set forth in section
8-3N-6, tables
8-3N-6A and
8-3N-6B of this article that are not listed in chapter 5 of this title or where
the specific use standards differ from those standards found in chapter 5 of
this title. These standards are in addition to the requirements of chapter 4 of
this title. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-1: AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY, OUTDOOR:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   All structures or outdoor recreation areas shall maintain a minimum
setback of twenty feet (20') from all abutting residential districts.
      2.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the amusement or
recreation facility shall comply with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this Code.
      3.   All outdoor activities and events shall be scheduled so as to
complete all activity before or as near to nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. as
practical. Illumination of the outdoor amusement or recreation facility shall
not be permitted after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. except to conclude a scheduled
event that was in progress before ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and circumstances
prevented concluding before ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. All illumination shall be
terminated no later than one (1) hour after conclusion of the event.
   B.   Golf Driving Range: Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment shall
be allowed. The golf driving range shall be designed to protect abutting
property and roadways from golf balls.
   C.   Swimming Pool: Any outdoor swimming pool shall be completely enclosed
within a six foot (6') barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County
Building Code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this Code. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-2: BAR, BREWPUB OR NIGHTCLUB:
   A.   The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding the
sale, manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   B.   The bar, brewpub, or nightclub shall not be located within five hundred
feet (500') of a church or school property.
   C.   For properties abutting a residential district, no outside activity or
event shall be allowed on the site, except as provided for in chapter 4,
article L, "Temporary Use", of this title. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-3: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   The minimum property size for a bed and breakfast establishment shall
be one-half (1/2) acre.
   B.   Any such facility shall be an owner occupied dwelling. For the purposes
of this subsection, an "owner" shall be defined as a person with a fifty
percent (50%) or greater interest in the bed and breakfast establishment.
   C.   If remodeling an existing structure, the exterior appearance of the
structure shall be that of a single-family dwelling. Fire escapes and other
features may be added to protect public safety; however, structural alterations
may not be made that would prevent future use of the structure as a single-
family dwelling.
   D.   No more than ten (10) occupants (including, but not limited to, the
owner, the owner's family, and any resident or nonresident employees) shall be
permitted to occupy the facility at any one (1) time (daytime, evening, or
night).
   E.   The maximum stay shall be two (2) weeks for any guest.
   F.   Only business signs referring solely to a principal permitted use of
the bed and breakfast are permitted. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-4: BUSINESS PARK:
There are no additional standards for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-5: CAR WASH:
   A.   All businesses providing self-service or drive-through car wash
facilities shall identify the stacking lane and wash location on the master
site plan.
   B.   If within the Mixed Use District, a car wash facility shall be allowed
only as an accessory use to a gasoline or diesel fuel sales facility. The car
wash facility shall be limited in capacity to a single vehicle.
   C.   A one hundred foot (100') separation shall be maintained between any
car wash facility and any residential district.
   D.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the car wash shall comply
with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this Code.
   E.   Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside
the car wash facility entrance. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity
to prevent obstruction of the public right- of-way by patrons. Such stacking
lanes shall be separate from areas required for access and parking. The
stacking lanes shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any residential
district. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-6: COMMUNITY CENTER:
All structures shall meet the minimum required setbacks for the applicable land
use district. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-7: COMMUNITY INFORMATION CENTER:
There are no additional standards for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-8: DRUGSTORE:
The applicant or owner shall secure and maintain the proper license(s) from the
State of Idaho. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-9: DWELLING, ACCESSORY:
   A.   An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) shall not be larger than twenty
percent (20%) of the lot area and the ADU shall not have more than one (1)
bedroom. Where practical, the twenty percent (20%) size standard may be altered
to accommodate logical expansions or internal conversions. Examples of this
include, but are not limited to, the addition of a second floor to a detached
garage or the separation of a basement as an accessory unit.
   B.   ADUs shall meet all of the dimensional requirements of the land use
district and requirements of the Ada County Building Code as set forth in title
7, chapter 2 of this Code.
   C.   The design of the ADU shall be compatible with the existing
neighborhood by taking into account height, bulk, and site location, and
incorporating materials, colors and a design motif that is compatible with and
complements the architectural theme and style of the principal dwelling unit.
The principal and the ADU shall be designed to portray the character of a
single family dwelling. Only one (1) entrance to the structure may be located
on the front building elevation of the house unless multiple entrances are
already in existence.
   D.   Off-street parking shall be provided as per section
8-4G-6 of this title, in addition to the required off-street parking for the
principal permitted dwelling. The driveway apron (driveway space within the
front yard setback) may be utilized for this requirement.
   E.   Input from adjacent property owners should be considered in the design
and siting of an ADU in order to maintain privacy between adjacent housing
units. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-10: DWELLING, LIVE/WORK:
   A.   The living space shall contain at least four hundred (400) square feet
of gross floor area.
   B.   The living space shall include a bedroom, closet, bathroom and kitchen.
The bedroom shall be for the exclusive use of the living space. All other
spaces may be shared with the workspace.
   C.   The live/work unit shall meet all of the requirements of the Ada County
Building Code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this Code.
   D.   A minimum of eighty (80) square feet of outdoor open space shall be
provided for each living space. This requirement can be satisfied through
porches, patios, decks, and/or yards. Required property setback, landscaping,
entryway and other access ways shall not count toward this requirement.
   E.   Off-street parking shall be provided as per section
8-4G-6 of this title, in addition to the required off-street parking for the
dwelling.
   F.   The commercial space activities shall be compatible with residential
use with respect to noise, smoke, vibration, smell, electrical interference,
and fire hazard; and may include such uses as professional services and
offices; and the creation, display and sale of art, craftwork, jewelry,
fabrication of cloth goods; and similar activities.
   G.   The live/work unit shall comply with the design guidelines of the Dry
Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   H.   The design of the live/work unit shall be compatible with the existing
neighborhood by taking into account height, bulk, and site location; and
incorporating materials, colors and a design motif that is compatible with and
complements the architectural theme and style of the vicinity. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-11: FENCE, OPEN:
   A.   No fence, hedge, wall, latticework, or screen shall violate the "clear
vision triangle" requirements at a street intersection.
   B.   No fence, wall, latticework, or screen shall be erected over three feet
(3') in height within the required front yard.
   C.   No fence, wall, latticework, or screen on the perimeter boundary or
within any required setback area shall exceed a height of six feet (6'), unless
approved by a variance by the board or as part of an approved use.
   D.   Where any fence or wall is required by this title to protect adjacent
properties, said fence or wall shall be kept free from advertising and graffiti
and maintained in good repair. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-12: FENCE, SOLID:
   A.   No sight-obscuring fence, hedge, wall, latticework, or screen shall
violate the "clear vision triangle" requirements at a street intersection.
   B.   No fence, wall, latticework, or screen shall be erected over three feet
(3') in height within the required front yard.
   C.   No fence, wall, latticework, or screen on the perimeter boundary or
within any required setback area shall exceed a height of six feet (6'), unless
approved by a variance by the Board or as part of an approved use.
   D.   Where any sight-obscuring fence or wall is required by this title to
protect adjacent properties, said fence or wall shall be kept free from
advertising and graffiti and maintained in good repair. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010;
amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-13: HEALTH CLUB FACILITY:
The facility shall comply with all County and State regulations relative to
such use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-14: HOSPITAL:
   A.   The use shall have frontage on an arterial or collector street.
   B.   Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops, food
or beverage service, and personal service shops, may be allowed if designed to
serve patrons of the hospital and their visitors only.
   C.   The use shall comply with the Flood Hazard Overlay District as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-15: HOSPITAL, LARGE ANIMAL:
The facility shall comply with all County and State regulations relative to
such use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-16: HOSPITAL, SMALL ANIMAL:
The facility shall comply with all County and State regulations relative to
such use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-17: PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Minimum Setbacks; Compatibility: All structures shall meet the minimum
required setbacks for the applicable base district, except within a residential
district where there shall be a minimum setback of thirty five feet (35') from
any public street and twenty five feet (25') from any other property line.
Structures shall be designed and constructed to be compatible with the
surrounding properties.
   B.   Public Recreation Facilities: The standards as set forth for amusement
and recreation facilities shall apply for all public recreation facilities.
   C.   Storm Drainage And Storm Detention Facilities: A storm drainage
facility and/or storm detention facility that are an accessory use to a roadway
on the same property shall be exempt. For the purposes of this standard, the
contiguous parcel regulations of section
8-4A-8 of this title shall not apply.
   D.   Underground Utilities: Underground utilities within an easement or
within a public street right-of-way shall not require additional approval.
   E.   Power Distribution Facilities:
      1.   Electric distribution lines shall be principal permitted uses.
Master site plan approval is not required.
      2.   Electric sub-transmission lines shall be principal permitted uses.
Master site plan approval shall be required.
      3.   Electric transmission lines and substations shall require
conditional use approval.
      4.   All electric transmission, sub-transmission, and distribution line
rights-of-way shall be exempt from the landscaping regulations of chapter 4,
article F of this title.
      5.   Electric substations and other utility structures shall be deemed
outdoor storage areas and shall meet the standards in section
8-5-3-78 of this title.
      6.   Towers for the purpose of communicating from the substation to
remote devices shall be deemed an accessory use to an approved substation,
provided that the pole and antenna are no taller than the existing towers.
      7.   All wire fences, metal structures, and metal objects shall be
grounded as required by section
8-4A-20 of this title. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-18: RESTAURANT OR EATING PLACE:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010)
8-3N-8-19: RESTAURANT, OUTDOOR:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010)
8-3N-8-20: RETAIL, LIFESTYLE CENTER:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010)
8-3N-8-21: RETAIL SALES, RELATING TO AN APPROVED USE:
Accessory retail sales shall be allowed for an approved commercial use. The
area devoted to retail sales shall not occupy more than forty percent (40%) of
the gross floor area of the approved use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-22: SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE:
   A.   Locations for public school sites shall be determined in conformance
with the Dry Creek Ranch Land Use Map. The following location criteria shall
apply unless in conflict with the applicable comprehensive plan:
      1.   Elementary schools shall take access off a public street, unless
otherwise approved by the applicable school district and ACHD.
      2.   No school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a
hazardous land use.
   B.   All structures shall meet the minimum setbacks of the Institutional/
School Site Land Use District.
   C.   Accessory uses including, but not limited to, daycare centers,
community services, social services, meeting facilities for clubs and
organizations, and administrative offices for the individual school facility
may be allowed. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-23: SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL OR TRADE:
No vocational or trade school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a
hazardous land use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-24: SCHOOL, UNIVERSITY:
No university school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a
hazardous land use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-8-25: SHOPPING CENTER, COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL:
(Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; rep. by Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-26: SHOPPING CENTER, CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010)
8-3N-8-27: SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010)
8-3N-8-28: SHOPPING CENTER, REGIONAL COMMERCIAL:
(Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; rep. by Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-8-29: STABLE, PRIVATE:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010)
8-3N-8-30: WATER TOWER:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 703, 2-10-
2010)
8-3N-8-31: WINERY:
   A.   The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding the
sale, manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   B.   The winery shall not be located within five hundred feet (500') of a
church or school property.
   C.   For properties abutting a residential district, no outside activity or
event shall be allowed on the site, except as provided for in chapter 4,
article L, "Temporary Use", of this title. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-9: OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to encourage well- designed
open space within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and to provide
standards for dedicated open space areas as specified in the Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan and/or uses approved as part of a development application.
   B.   Applicability: The following regulations shall apply to open space lots
created within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   Plat Approval: In approving each preliminary plat within Dry Creek
Ranch, the Board shall determine that the plat is in accordance with the open
space plan as was approved with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan with
consideration of the flexibility provisions of this article and the plan.
      2.   Allowed Open Space Uses: Allowable uses on lands designated as in
the "Park District" or "Natural Open Space District" shall include the uses set
forth in section
8-3N-6, table 8-3N-6B of this article.
      3.   Restrictions For Permanent Open Space: All open space lots in the
"Park District" or "Natural Open Space District" shall be dedicated open space
protected by either a deed restriction or a conservation easement prepared
subject to the regulations of Idaho Code section 55-2105.
   D.   Design Standards: The provision, development and use of open space
shall be in conformance with this article and the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive
Plan.
      1.   Consistency: The design shall be consistent with the Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Accessibility: The dedicated open space shall be easily accessible
to residents of Dry Creek Ranch as deemed appropriate by the Dry Creek Ranch
Wildlife Management Plan.
      3.   Roadways: The number of private or public roadways that divide the
dedicated open space shall be limited to those necessary for proper traffic
circulation, and the roadways shall not detract from the efficient use of the
open space.
      4.   Structures: The dedicated open space shall be free of all
structures, except those that enhance the use of the dedicated open space
including, but not limited to: structures related to outdoor recreational use;
structures of historic and/or cultural significance, educational buildings;
way-finding or informational signage; parking facilities; well houses; and
utility infrastructure and facilities.
      5.   Stormwater Basins: Stormwater retention or detention basins designed
and approved as part of the stormwater management system for the property may
be located within the dedicated open space.
      6.   Impervious Surface: Please see section
8-3N-5,
table 8-3N-5D of this article for maximum coverage for impervious surfaces per
land use district.
      7.   Additional Standards For Open Space In The "Park District" Or
"Natural Open Space District":
         a.   Width: The dedicated open space shall be an appropriate width as
determined by the Director and may include natural open space, a trail system,
pathway network, greenways, parkways, pocket parks, recreational fields or
pocket parks for active or passive recreational use or linear open spaces.
         b.   Neighboring Properties: The dedicated open space shall be
connected to open space areas on neighboring properties wherever possible
including provisions for pedestrian walkways to create linked walkway or
pathway systems.
         c.   Parking Spaces: The dedicated open space shall have the required
number of automobile and bicycle parking spaces as set forth in this title.
            (1)   Parking areas shall have safe and convenient access from an
abutting public street or other rights-of-way or easements capable of
accommodating pedestrian, bicycle or vehicle traffic.
            (2)   Required parking areas for outdoor amusement or recreation
facilities may be included in calculating the amount of dedicated open space.
         d.   Alternative Open Space Plan: Following recommendations from the
DRC, the Director may approve, or recommend approval of, an alternative open
space plan when the overall design as proposed by the applicant, meets or
exceeds the requirements of this article and the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive
Plan and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-10: SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
Signs are allowed throughout the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and shall be
in conformance with this article, the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan, and
the provisions of chapter 4, article I of this title. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010;
amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-11: ON- AND OFF-STREET PARKING:
All parking shall meet Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
requirements and shall be in accordance with the provisions of chapter 4,
article G of this title, except as follows:
   A.   Improvements:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all off-street parking
areas shall be improved as an approved pavement design and parking layout
prepared by a licensed civil engineer in the State of Idaho. This standard
shall not apply to temporary uses, the education center, or temporary
construction offices.
      2.   When a bumper overhangs onto a landscape area, with properly
designed ground coverage or lawn area, the parking stall dimensions may be
reduced two feet (2') in length. If parking is adjacent to the sidewalk, the
parking dimensions may also be reduced by two feet (2') in length if the width
of the sidewalk is increased by two feet (2').
      3.   Parking spaces and access lanes shall be marked including
handicapped symbols and signs per ADA and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices standards.
      4.   All lighting provided to illuminate a parking area shall comply with
the lighting standards provided in chapter 4, article H of this title and the
Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Alternative Plan:
      1.   Following recommendation from the DRC, the Director may approve, or
recommend approval of, an alternative off-street parking and loading plan, when
the overall design, as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent
and the requirements of this article and shall not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   C.   Required Number Of Off-Street Parking: See section
8-4G-6 of this title.
The required parking for clubs, lodges and social halls may be provided by on-
street parking located within one-eighth (1/8) mile of the lot on which the
club, lodge, or social hall is located. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-
21-2017)
8-3N-12: STANDARDS FOR ENERGY AND WATER CONSERVATION:
Development standards for energy and water conservation shall be consistent
with the Dry Creek Ranch Design Guidelines, as located within the Dry Creek
Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   A.   Energy Conservation: All new construction shall meet or exceed the
requirements of the Energy Conservation Code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2
of this Code.
   B.   Water Conservation: All landscaping shall comply with the water
conservation requirements of section
8-3N-17 of this article. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-13: GRADING REQUIREMENTS:
All grading shall be in conformance with this article and title 7, chapter 2,
"Building Codes", of this Code. Grading on slopes greater than fifteen percent
(15%) shall comply with article H of this chapter. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd.
Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-14: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES AND SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
The design standards for structures and site improvements shall be in
conformance with this article and the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. (Ord.
703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-15: FRONTAGE AND ACCESS:
Development shall only be approved on a property that meets the minimum
dimensional standards of section
8-3N-5,
table 8-3N-5D of this article. Access shall be taken from the required frontage
unless the property also has frontage on an alley, an approved private road, or
an approved common driveway.
   A.   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys may be permitted in all land use districts within the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community.
      2.   The width of an alley shall typically be twenty feet (20'), but
shall not be less than sixteen feet (16') and shall be paved.
      3.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment should be
avoided, but where necessary, corners will be cut off sufficiently to permit
safe vehicular movement.
      4.   Dead-end alleys shall be permitted, with written approval from the
applicable fire district.
      5.   Alleys may count as required lot frontage in all residential zones.
      6.   Alleys may be public or private. If private, the alley must be owned
and maintained by the Dry Creek Ranch Property Owners' Association.
      7.   An alley may intersect an alley.
      8.   An alley may curve and/or turn.
   B.   Common Driveways:
      1.   Common driveways may be permitted in all land use districts within
the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community.
      2.   A three foot (3') wide landscaped area shall be constructed and
maintained between the common driveway and lots which do not utilize the common
driveway.
      3.   The street frontage requirement of each flag lot served by the
common driveway may be reduced to five feet (5').
      4.   All individual private driveways, on lots that are contiguous to the
common driveway, shall originate from the common driveway, not the public
street, unless existing site conditions preclude this design. On arterials and
collector street, all lots or parcels within the subdivision that abut the lot
or parcels that have reduced street frontage and contain the common driveway
shall take access from the common driveway to minimize access points, unless
the parking for an existing dwelling cannot be reasonably reconfigured to take
access from the common driveway.
      5.   A perpetual ingress/egress easement and maintenance agreement shall
be recorded and provided with the final plat application. The easement shall be
delineated on the final plat or recorded by a separate document.
      6.   The common driveway and all necessary support utilities shall be
constructed concurrently with public improvements. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd.
Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-16: EASEMENTS:
Easements shall be provided for utilities, drainage and irrigation outside of
public street rights-of-way as needed. The width of said easement will be
determined by the land use and negotiated with the entity(ies) responsible for
the construction and/or maintenance of the utility. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
8-3N-17: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   All landscaping shall be in conformance with this article, and the
Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   All landscape areas shall be served with an automatic underground
irrigation system with the exception of those lots in the hillside portions of
Dry Creek Ranch. The irrigation system shall comply with the following design
criteria:
         a.   The irrigation system shall be designed to provide appropriate
spacing to avoid overspray onto impervious surfaces such as sidewalks,
driveways, and parking areas.
         b.   Sprinkler heads irrigating lawn or other high-water-demand areas
shall be circuited so that they are on a separate zone or zones from those
irrigating trees, shrubs, or other reduced- water-demand areas.
      3.   All developed lots shall use low water and drought tolerant grasses
and shrubs, including xeriscape where appropriate.
      4.   Non-potable water shall be the first source of irrigation water for
common area irrigation where available.
      5.   All non-residential development shall be provided with a pressurized
irrigation system.
      6.   Landscape irrigation systems shall be designed to meet the needs of
the plants in the landscape.
      7.   Landscape irrigation systems shall be equipped with automatic
controller with operational flexibility to adjust for seasonal water
conservation and temporary water shortage restrictions.
      8.   Landscape street buffer requirements shall be as follows:
         a.   Abutting State Highway 55: Fifty feet (50');
         b.   Abutting minor and major arterials: Thirty feet (30');
         c.   Abutting collectors: Twenty feet (20').
      9.   No final plat shall be approved until such time as the applicant has
provided a landscape plan to Ada County, for review and approval. In addition
to those standards set forth in chapter 4, article F of this title, the
landscape plan shall contain the following:
         a.   The location, size, and type of all proposed landscaping
materials (including specific references as to the species of plant materials),
and verification that minimum landscaping requirements have been satisfied. All
plants shall be shown at seventy five percent (75%) mature growth.
         b.   Existing vegetation to be saved shall be identified on the
landscaping plan along with protection measures to be used during grading and
construction. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 864, 2-21-2017)
8-3N-18: AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this article shall be in accordance to
8-7-3 of this title. (Ord. 703, 2-10-2010)
CHAPTER 4
REGULATIONS APPLYING TO ALL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Applicability
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes regulations for all uses as set forth in the
applicable base and overlay districts including specific regulations for one
time divisions, property boundary adjustments, private roads, master site
plans, landscaping, off- street parking and loading, lighting, signs, dedicated
open space, and surety agreements. See chapter 5 of this title for specific use
standards. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this chapter shall apply as follows:
   A.   All development shall be in accord with the regulations in article A of
this chapter. Access shall comply with the regulations of section
8-4A-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Applications for one time divisions shall be reviewed and approved by
the regulations as set forth in article B of this chapter and the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title.
   C.   Applications for property boundary adjustments shall be reviewed and
approved by the regulations as set forth in article C of this chapter and the
procedures in chapter 7 of this title.
   D.   Applications for private roads shall be reviewed and approved by the
regulations as set forth in article D of this chapter and the procedures in
chapter 7 of this title.
   E.   Master site plans shall be approved, approved with conditions, or
denied in accord with the regulations of article E of this chapter and the
procedures in chapter 7 of this title.
   F.   Landscaping shall comply with the regulations of article F of this
chapter.
   G.   Off-street parking or loading facilities shall comply with the
regulations of article G of this chapter.
   H.   Exterior lighting shall comply with the regulations of article H of
this chapter.
   I.   Signs shall comply with the regulations of article I of this chapter.
   J.   Dedicated open space uses in subdivisions and planned unit developments
shall comply with the regulations of article J of this chapter.
   K.   Surety agreements shall comply with the regulations of article K of
this chapter.
   L.   Temporary uses shall comply with the regulations of article L of this
chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE A. STANDARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4A-1: Purpose
8-4A-2: Applicability
8-4A-3: Access To And Frontage On A Roadway
8-4A-4: Accumulation Of Junk
8-4A-5: Agriculture
8-4A-6: Atmospheric Emissions
8-4A-7: Condominium Projects
8-4A-8: Contiguous Parcels
8-4A-9: Construction Sites
8-4A-10: Dimensional Standards
8-4A-11: Drainage
8-4A-12: Dwellings, Two Or More Existing
8-4A-13: Hazardous Material Storage
8-4A-14: Reserved
8-4A-15: Outdoor Public Address System
8-4A-16: Outdoor Storage Of Chemicals And Fertilizers
8-4A-17: Property Created By Court Decree
8-4A-18: Pipeline Corridors
8-4A-19: Property Reduced By Governmental Action
8-4A-20: Transmission Line Corridors
8-4A-21: Utilities
8-4A-22: Urban Public Facilities
8-4A-23: Water
8-4A-24: Grading
8-4A-25: Renovation, Repair, Expansion Or Replacement Of Dwelling
8-4A-26: Structure Greater Than Ten Thousand Square Feet
8-4A-1: PURPOSE:
This article provides standard regulations for the location, design, and
development of new land uses and the alteration of existing land uses. This
article supplements the regulations for development in each base district and
overlay district as set forth in chapters 2 and 3, respectively, of this title.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to the development of all principal permitted,
accessory, and conditional uses. The following regulations are the minimum
standards of development. Additional standards may be applied in accord with
overlay districts, specific use standards, or other regulations of this title.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-3: ACCESS TO AND FRONTAGE ON A ROADWAY:
   A.   "Development", as herein defined, shall only be approved on a property
that meets the minimum dimensional standards of the base and overlay districts,
unless otherwise allowed by this title. When a property takes access from a
private road, the terminus of which is located within the property, the
required frontage shall be thirty feet (30') or the width of the private road
easement.
   B.   Access shall be taken from the required frontage unless the property
also has frontage on an alley or an approved private road. Multi-family,
commercial or industrial developments may be exempt from this requirement if
the development meets the standards for continuous service drive outlined in
section
8-4G-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 491, 2-26-2003; amd.
Ord. 763, 10-13-2010)
8-4A-4: ACCUMULATION OF JUNK:
Unless approved as a commercial junkyard, accumulation of junk on a property
shall only be allowed on a property where a principal permitted use is
established. Property owners shall not store junk outdoors on more than one
acre of area or shall not exceed the maximum coverage allowed for the property,
whichever standard is more restrictive. All outdoor storage of junk shall be
subject to screening standards of section
8-4F-5 of this chapter, except farms, as herein defined, in a rural district
shall be excluded from screening abandoned farm equipment. Junk shall not
exceed the height of the sight obscuring screen. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-5: AGRICULTURE:
Nothing contained in this title shall prohibit the use of any land for
agriculture except where such use creates a health hazard 1 . (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-5-3-5 of this title.
8-4A-6: ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS:
All atmospheric emissions (including, but not limited to, smoke, gas, dust,
odor, or other atmospheric pollutants), without respect to whether the
emissions are created outside the structure in which the use is conducted or
within a completely enclosed structure, shall obtain a permit, as provided in
Idaho Code section 39-115, through the Idaho department of health and welfare.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-7: CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS:
All condominium projects shall be reviewed to ensure the use complies with the
requirements of any applicable base and overlay districts. If approved, the
condominium project plat and declaration shall be certified by the county
surveyor and signed by the board as provided in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13
and title 55, chapter 15. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-8: CONTIGUOUS PARCELS:
Abutting parcels held in the same ownership shall be considered one property
for development purposes unless the owner can demonstrate one of the following:
   A.   The parcels comply with the regulations of this title that were in
effect at the time such parcels were recorded, and the parcels were originally
conveyed and recorded under a single deed identifying each as a separate
parcel;
   B.   The parcels comply with the regulations of this title that were in
effect at the time such parcels were recorded, and the parcels were originally
conveyed and recorded under separate deeds;
   C.   Each of the abutting parcels is a conforming or nonconforming property
as defined in subsection 8-1B-2B of this title; or
   D.   Physical characteristics of the property prevent its use as one unit,
the properties are separated by a fee simple ownership and/or the properties
are separated by a public right of way or public street. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001)
8-4A-9: CONSTRUCTION SITES:
New development shall contain construction debris on site and prevent windblown
debris from entering neighboring properties. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-10: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards and required yards are established for each base district
as set forth in chapter 2 of this title.
   A.   Minimum Area And Dimension Requirements: No property size, yard,
parking area, or other space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to
make said area or dimension less than the minimum required. If already less
than the minimum required by this title, said area or dimension shall not be
further reduced. This provision shall not apply to nonbuildable properties
including, but not limited to, landscape lots, lots for private roads, drainage
facilities, pump stations, metering stations and transmission/distribution
substations.
   B.   Setbacks 1 :
      1.   Approved signs shall be exempt from the setback requirements of
chapter 2 of this title.
      2.   Setbacks for corner lots shall be determined as follows:
         a.   The front yard setback shall be required along the property line
where the driveway enters the property. The side yard setback shall be provided
along the side street property line as applicable to the roadway
classification.
         b.   The rear yard setback shall be provided either along the interior
side property line or rear property line. The side yard setback shall be
provided along the remaining property line (rear or interior side) as
applicable.
   C.   Required Yards: The front, side, and/or rear required yards shall not
be occupied by any use or structure except for: fencing (see chapter 5 of this
title for specific fence standards); landscaping; off street parking; drives;
streets; signs; lighting; detached accessory structures two hundred (200)
square feet or less in size and under ten feet (10') in height may be located
in side and/or rear required yards only; patios; walkways; retaining walls;
and/or certain architectural features as detailed below (see
figure 12, section 8-1A-2 of this title):
      1.   Where the required setback is greater than ten feet (10'):
         a.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other architectural features may
project a distance not exceeding 2.5 feet into the required yard.
         b.   Fire escapes may project a distance not exceeding 4.5 feet into
the required yard.
         c.   Bay windows, balconies, and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding three feet (3') into the required yard, provided that such features
do not occupy, in the aggregate more than one- third (1/3) of the building wall
on which they are located.
      2.   Where the required setback is ten feet (10') or less:
         a.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other architectural features may
project a distance not exceeding two feet (2') into the required yard.
         b.   Fire escapes may project a distance not exceeding two feet (2')
into the required yard.
         c.   Bay windows, balconies, and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding two feet (2') into the required yard, provided that such features do
not occupy, in the aggregate more than one-third (1/3) of the building wall on
which they are located.
   D.   Height Limit Exceptions: See subsection
8-1-5B1 of this title, regarding how structure height is measured.
      1.   Height Limit Applicability: The maximum height limitation set forth
in the applicable base district shall not apply to the following:
         a.   Agricultural Structure: Agricultural structure;
         b.   Chimney Or Smokestack: Chimney or smokestack architectural
features shall have a maximum height limit of sixty feet (60'). A maximum
height that exceeds sixty feet (60') may be allowed by variance approval or if
specifically authorized as a component of a conditional use permit, subject to
compliance with the standards identified in subsection D2 of this section;
         c.   Spire, Steeple, Belfry, Or Cupola: The maximum height limit for
spire, steeple, belfry, or cupola architectural features shall be sixty feet
(60'). The maximum height limit may be increased to eighty feet (80') if the
architectural feature is found by a county design professional to comply with
the standards identified in subsection D2 of this section in conjunction with a
review of a master site plan or building permit for the building to which the
feature will be attached. A maximum height that exceeds eighty feet (80') may
be allowed by variance approval or if specifically authorized as a component of
a conditional use permit, subject to compliance with the standards identified
in subsection D2 of this section;
         d.   Institutional Uses: Institutional uses (including church,
hospital, public or quasi-public use, and school, public or private) that
require conditional use approval may exceed the maximum height limitation
prescribed by the applicable zoning base district if specifically authorized as
a component of a conditional use permit; and
         e.   Towers, Commercial And Private: The following types of tower
structures may exceed the maximum height limitation of the applicable base
district subject to applicable specific use standards: amateur radio antenna,
distributed power facility-wind freestanding tower, water tower, fire and hose
tower, observation tower, power line tower, radio tower, paging facility,
cellular phone facility, cellular tower, television tower, bridge tower, or
other commercial or personal tower and/or antenna structure.
      2.   Architectural Feature Standards:
         a.   An architectural feature(s) listed in subsection D1b or D1c of
this section which exceeds sixty feet (60') in height shall comply with the
following standards:
            (1)   The mass of the architectural feature is in visual proportion
and scale with the building to which it is attached;
            (2)   The exterior materials and colors of the architectural
feature are appropriate to its mass, and are visually complementary with the
building to which it is attached;
            (3)   The architectural feature does not significantly impede views
from adjacent properties;
            (4)   The architectural feature does not include signage; and
            (5)   Lighting of the architectural feature is limited to indirect
lighting. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-
2003; amd. Ord. 658, 3-14-2007; amd. Ord. 713, 11-12-2008; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-
2011; amd. Ord. 806, 5-8-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See figure 11, section
  8-1A-2 of this title.
8-4A-11: DRAINAGE:
All drainage studies and drainage plans as herein required shall be based upon
estimates of peak and total discharges.
   A.   Drainage Study:
      1.   The drainage study shall identify the essential elements,
alignments, and functions of a drainage system.
      2.   The drainage study shall show the following site conditions:
         a.   Details of existing site drainage and/or irrigation features
including, but not limited to, ditches, watercourses, and drainage structures;
         b.   The permeability and types of soils and geologic materials;
         c.   The size of the drainage basin upstream;
         d.   The topography, slope, and geometry of the site;
         e.   The proximity of surface water within one hundred feet (100');
         f.   The proximity of potable water supply wells within one hundred
feet (100');
         g.   The proposed use and potential contaminants; and
         h.   The past use and possible soil and/or ground water contamination.
      3.   Other supplemental data as may be required by the county engineer.
      4.   The drainage study requirement is also met if the study information
required is shown on the drainage plan.
   B.   Drainage Plan:
      1.   When a condition of approval requires approval of a drainage plan by
the county engineer, the applicant shall submit a drainage plan to the director
for design approval by the county prior to issuance of a zoning certificate.
      2.   The drainage plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
         a.   All proposed grading to be done on the property;
         b.   Essential elements, alignments, and functions of the proposed
drainage system including, but not limited to, sewers, storm drains, catch
basins, pumps, and seepage beds;
         c.   The drainage plan shall indicate by flow arrows, contours, spot
elevations, or some other acceptable manner, where storm water will be routed
for the property. It must show the location and size of any flows onto the site
from outside the property boundaries as well as any discharges leaving the
site;
         d.   The proposed use and potential contaminants;
         e.   When drainage courses and irrigation facilities exist on site,
the owner and/or applicant shall provide documentary evidence of consent to
reroutings by all interested landowners and drainage and irrigation entities
affected and having rights to, and in, such facilities; and
         f.   Other supplemental data as may be required by the county
engineer. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019)
8-4A-12: DWELLINGS, TWO OR MORE EXISTING:
Any property that has two (2) or more existing dwellings that were built prior
to May 20, 1968, or were principal permitted dwellings approved in accord with
the zoning regulations that were in effect at the time such dwellings were
built, shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Each dwelling shall be subject to
the standards in section
8-1B-4 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-13: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STORAGE:
The storage of any hazardous materials, as defined by title 40 code of federal
regulations part 261, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall require a list of
those materials to be submitted to the Ada County sheriff's office, the Ada
County emergency medical services, the Ada County development services
department, the applicable fire district, and the Ada city-county emergency
management office, prior to issuance of a zoning certificate. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
8-4A-14: RESERVED:
(Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
8-4A-15: OUTDOOR PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM:
Outdoor public address systems or speakers for nonresidential uses shall only
be allowed within the C2, C3, M2, and M3 districts, or as part of an approved
master site plan, accessory use, or conditional use. The outdoor public address
system shall comply with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-16: OUTDOOR STORAGE OF CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS:
The outdoor storage of chemicals and/or fertilizers including, but not limited
to, salts or other minerals, shall be prohibited. See also section
8-4F-5 of this chapter for screening standards for outdoor storage areas. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-17: PROPERTY CREATED BY COURT DECREE:
Any property created by court decree shall be recognized as a property for
transfer of ownership; but shall not be eligible for development including any
building permits for renovation or repair of an existing structure. To become
eligible for development, the property shall comply with all applicable
regulations of this title, including, but not limited to, chapter 2, article A
of this title, article B of this chapter, and chapter 6 of this title. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
8-4A-18: PIPELINE CORRIDORS:
For any property for which there is a pipeline corridor easement (including,
but not limited to, the Northwest Pipeline and Chevron Pipe Line), the owner
and/or applicant shall provide appropriate setbacks from the pipeline facility
as determined by the easement holder. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-19: PROPERTY REDUCED BY GOVERNMENTAL ACTION:
If a governmental action (such as acquisition through prescription, purchase,
or other means by Ada County, a municipality within Ada County, the Ada County
highway district, Idaho transportation department, utility company or
corporation under the jurisdiction of the Idaho public utilities commission, or
other local, state, or federal agency) reduces an existing property below the
required property size, the remaining property shall be deemed as a conforming
property for the purposes of development. See also section
8-1B-3 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 591, 7-27-2005; amd. Ord.
768, 1-12-2011)
8-4A-20: TRANSMISSION LINE CORRIDORS:
All wire fences, metal structures, and metal objects within one hundred feet
(100') of transmission lines shall be grounded. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4A-21: UTILITIES:
All utilities shall be installed underground for a new dwelling or approved
use. For the purposes of this section, the term "utilities" shall include, but
not be limited to, electric, natural gas, water, wastewater collection, storm
drainage, telephone, and cable services. Agricultural structures as herein
defined shall be exempt from this regulation. The Director may waive this
requirement when utility provides or installers determine that site conditions
would preclude or would render such installation impractical or cost
prohibitive, taking into consideration such factors as terrain, available
easements, maintenance, repair, replacements, and the like. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-4A-22: URBAN PUBLIC FACILITIES:
Options for sewage disposal facilities shall include the following methods:
   A.   New development located within an urban service planning area or within
a planned community shall be served by urban public facilities.
   B.   Other new development shall be served by an on site individual
wastewater treatment system and an on site well, both of which have been
approved by the Central district health department.
   C.   If an existing wastewater treatment system fails, as determined by the
Central district health department, the property owner(s) shall connect to a
city's or sewer district's wastewater collection and treatment system, if a
collection line is located within three hundred feet (300'). If a collection
line is not located within three hundred feet (300'), then the existing
wastewater treatment system may be replaced with a system approved by the
Central district health department.
   D.   If an existing community well fails, the property owner(s) shall
connect to a city's, water district's, or utility's water system if a
distribution line is located within three hundred feet (300'). If a
distribution line is not located within three hundred feet (300'), then the
community well may be replaced with a water system approved by the Central
district health department and Idaho department of environmental quality. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-4A-23: WATER:
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; rep. by Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-4A-24: GRADING:
No grading, filling, clearing, or excavation of any kind, excluding grading
associated with an agricultural use, shall be initiated without county engineer
approval of a drainage study or drainage plan (see section
8-4A-11 of this article), and as applicable, an approved hillside application
(see section
8-3H-1 of this title). (Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord.
766, 12-8-2010)
8-4A-25: RENOVATION, REPAIR, EXPANSION OR REPLACEMENT OF DWELLING:
A zoning certificate for the renovation, repair, expansion or replacement of a
dwelling (including any existing or proposed accessory structures) may be
issued to a property that meets the following criteria:
   A.   An easement, recorded prior to January 1, 1993, that is at least twenty
feet (20') wide, provides access to the property; and
   B.   The property was of record in the Ada County recorder's office prior to
January 1, 1993; and
   C.   The property contains a dwelling that conforms to all applicable codes
and/or ordinances; and
   D.   The property complies with the minimum property size of the base and
overlay districts; and
   E.   The property is located in an area of city impact. (Ord. 491, 2-26-
2003)
8-4A-26: STRUCTURE GREATER THAN TEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET:
For structures where the footprint is greater than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet, the structure shall be designed such that the building mass and bulk are
distributed. The following standards shall not apply to dwellings or
agricultural structures as herein defined:
   A.   Mechanisms for such distribution shall include, but not be limited to,
one or more of the following:
      1.   Variation in the horizontal offsets of the structure facade. Facades
greater than one hundred feet (100') in length must incorporate recesses and
projections along a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the length of the
facade. Windows, awnings, and arcades must total a minimum of sixty percent
(60%) of the facade length abutting a public street.
      2.   Variation in the height of a minimum of five feet (5').
      3.   Changes in the grade of a minimum of three feet (3').
      4.   Variation in rooflines.
   B.   The maximum footprint area for the distributed portions of the
structure shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet. The minimum footprint
area for the distributed portions of the structure shall be one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
   C.   The director may approve, or recommend approval of, an alternative
development proposal when the overall design, as proposed by the applicant,
meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this chapter and shall not
be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 733, 12-9-2009)
ARTICLE B. ONE TIME DIVISION
SECTION:
8-4B-1: Purpose
8-4B-2: Applicability
8-4B-3: Process
8-4B-4: Standards
8-4B-5: Required Finding
8-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article allow for the one time division of a parcel
into two (2) parcels without being subject to the subdivision regulations as
set forth in chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4B-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations apply to: a) lots created prior to September 29, 1959, or b)
parcels of land that were of record in the Ada County recorder's office prior
to January 1, 1985 (hereinafter referred to as the parcel of record), the
boundaries of which shall not have changed except for one or more of the
following:
   A.   The parcel of record was reduced by governmental action as specified in
section
8-4A-19 of this chapter; and/or
   B.   The parcel of record was reduced by the conveyance of property to a
public utility for the purpose of constructing a public infrastructure
facility; and/or
   C.   The parcel of record received approval for a property boundary
adjustment as specified in article C of this chapter, and where the parcel of
record met both the following standards:
      1.   The parcel of record had sufficient acreage to accomplish the one
time division prior to completion of the property boundary adjustment; and
      2.   The property boundary adjustment did not diminish the size of the
parcel of record such that it no longer has sufficient acreage to accomplish
the one time division. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001)
8-4B-3: PROCESS:
   A.   Application: The applicant shall submit an application and fees on
forms provided by the development services department as set forth in chapter
7, article A of this title.
   B.   Tentative Approval; Requirements: Upon tentative approval of the
application by the director subject to any applicable conditions of approval
and the regulations of subsection
8-7-2 A of this title, the applicant or owner shall have one year to complete
the following tasks:
      1.   Cause the property to be surveyed and before recording submit to the
director draft copies of the record of survey and resultant parcel descriptions
for review;
      2.   Execute and record the record of survey and necessary deeds with the
Ada County Recorder to accomplish the one time division as approved;
      3.   Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County assessor; and
      4.   Provide copies of the recorded record of survey and the new tax
parcel numbers to the director.
   C.   Issuance Of Approval Letter: The director shall determine that all
conditions of approval have been met and that the one time division is in
conformance with this section before final approval letter is issued. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-
9-2003)
8-4B-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   The proposed division shall result in two (2) parcels that comply with
the design and dimensional standards of this title, except when the parcel of
record has been diminished by governmental action 1 , the director may approve
a reduced property size on one of the resulting parcels, subject to other
regulations of this title.
   B.   The proposed division is not a "subdivision" as defined in this title.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-4A-19 of this chapter.
8-4B-5: REQUIRED FINDING:
In order to approve the application, the decision making body shall find that
the proposed one time division complies with the standards in section
8-4B-4 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE C. PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
8-4C-1: Purpose
8-4C-2: Applicability
8-4C-3: Process
8-4C-4: Standards
8-4C-5: Required Finding
8-4C-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article allow for the adjustment of parcel lines or
platted lot lines between existing legal or nonconforming properties. A
property boundary adjustment does not vacate the platted lot lines of a
recorded subdivision. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4C-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   These regulations apply to existing lots and parcels in Ada County.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001)
8-4C-3: PROCESS:
   A.   Application: The applicant shall submit an application and fees on
forms provided by the development services department as set forth in chapter
7, article A of this title.
   B.   Tentative Approval; Requirements: Upon tentative approval of the
application by the director subject to any applicable conditions of approval
and the regulations of subsection
8-7-2A of this title, the applicant or owner shall have one year to complete
the following tasks:
      1.   Cause the property to be surveyed and before recording submit to the
director draft copies of the record of survey and resultant parcel descriptions
for review;
      2.   Execute and record the record of survey and necessary deeds with the
Ada County Recorder to accomplish the property boundary adjustments as
approved;
      3.   Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County assessor; and
      4.   Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and
the new tax parcel numbers to the director.
   C.   Issuance Of Approval Letter: The director shall determine that all
conditions of approval have been met and that the property boundary adjustment
is in conformance with this section before final approval letter is issued.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-4C-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   A property boundary adjustment shall not reduce the property size below
the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by this title including
regulations for individual wastewater treatment systems and wells as set forth
in section
8-4A-22 of this chapter.
   B.   If one or more of the properties is nonconforming as to the minimum
dimensional standards prescribed by this title, the property boundary
adjustment shall not increase the nonconformity.
   C.   A property boundary adjustment shall not increase the original number
of properties.
   D.   A property boundary adjustment shall not change or move any public
streets, private roads, easements, or publicly dedicated areas in any manner.
   E.   The property boundary adjustment shall not constitute a relocation of a
property.
   F.   For platted lots, the property boundary adjustment shall be in
substantial conformance to the recorded plat. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
490, 4-9-2003)
8-4C-5: REQUIRED FINDING:
In order to approve the application, the decision making body shall find that
the proposed property boundary adjustment complies with the standards in
section
8-4C-4 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE D. PRIVATE ROADS
SECTION:
8-4D-1: Purpose
8-4D-2: Applicability
8-4D-3: Process
8-4D-4: Standards
8-4D-5: Required Findings
8-4D-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article allow property owners to construct and maintain
private roads to provide access to properties that do not have frontage on a
public street. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4D-2: APPLICABILITY:
These standards apply to all new private roads, all extensions to private
roads, and in some instances to existing private roads. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 628, 7-12-2006)
8-4D-3: PROCESS:
   A.   When Application Is Required:
      1.   The construction of all new private roads.
      2.   Extensions to existing private roads.
      3.   The addition of properties to an existing private road, which
requires for the road to be widened and paved as required in subsection
8-4D-4 B2 of this article.
      4.   An application for a private road shall not be required when an
existing private road has had prior written approval and provides adequate
access for the additional lots property being proposed,. Documents
demonstrating approval and adequate access must be submitted as part of the
property development application. Submitted documents shall include: a copy of
the recorded perpetual access easement that demonstrates the easement is
appurtenant to the additional properties; the recorded maintenance agreement
that demonstrates it is applicable to the additional properties; and the
original approval from Ada County or the city which approved the existing
private road.
      5.   The applicant shall submit an application and fees on forms provided
by the development services department.
   B.   Tentative Approval; Requirements: Upon tentative approval of the
application by the director subject to any applicable conditions of approval
and the regulations of subsection
8-7-2 A of this title, the applicant or owner shall have one year to complete
the following tasks:
      1.   Obtain approval from the Ada County street naming committee for a
private road name (see title 2, chapter 1 of this code);
      2.   Contact the Ada County highway district (ACHD) to install an
approved street name sign that complies with the regulations of the Ada County
uniform street naming ordinance (see title 2, chapter 1 of this code);
      3.   Record a perpetual access easement with the Ada County recorder for
the private road from a public street to all applicable properties;
      4.   After the private road is constructed and the street name sign is
installed, schedule an inspection by the Ada County engineer; and
      5.   The applicant or owner shall provide documentation of a binding
contract that establishes the party or parties responsible for the repair and
maintenance of the private road including regulations for the funding thereof.
   C.   Completion; Approval: Upon completion of the items noted above, the
director shall issue a letter stating that the private road has been approved.
No building permit shall be issued for any structure using a private road for
access to a public street until the private road has been approved. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 628, 7-12-2006; amd. Ord. 902,
10-2-2019)
8-4D-4: STANDARDS:
All private roads (including extensions of previously approved private roads)
shall be constructed to the following standards (see also section 8-1A-2,
figure 13 of this title):
   A.   Design Standards:
      1.   The private road shall be constructed on a perpetual access easement
or a single platted lot that originates from a public street and provides
access to all applicable properties.
         a.   Outside an area of city impact, the easement or lot shall be a
minimum of thirty feet (30') in width. Inside an area of city impact, the
easement or lot shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') in width.
         b.   If located on a lot, the primary function of the lot shall be to
accommodate the private road. Minimum parcel size requirements shall not apply.
      2.   All properties abutting an approved private road shall have the same
minimum required street frontage as required by the applicable base district,
except: If the turnaround for the private road is located within a property as
illustrated in section
8-1A-2, figure 14 of this title, the required frontage shall be thirty feet
(30') (the width of the private road easement).
      3.   The point of connection of the private road and the public street
shall be approved by the Ada County highway district or the Idaho
Transportation Department if abutting a state highway.
      4.   The private road shall terminate at a forty five foot (45') radius
cul-de-sac or other approved turnaround configuration.
         a.   The turnaround may be located in an area of the property other
than where the private road enters the property (see section
8-1A-2 , figure 14 of this title).
         b.   If the applicant proposes an alternate location and/or
configuration for the turnaround, the following additional standards shall
apply:
            (1)   The applicant shall provide written approval from the
appropriate fire district.
            (2)   The county engineer shall review and approve the alternate
location and/or configuration.
      5.   The private road shall only intersect a public road at its
origination point.
      6.   The private road shall not intersect another private road.
      7.   New gates or other travelway obstacles shall not be allowed except
in exceptional circumstances when the director determines the gate or gates are
necessary to improve safety or to halt environmental degradation in the area.
Before approving a new gate or other obstacle, the director shall provide the
fire district, or if no fire district, the Ada County sheriff, with advice from
the Idaho state fire marshal's office, the opportunity to review the proposal
and offer recommendations.
         a.   Approved gate openings shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20')
wide, be located a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the public right of way,
and when the gate is open, the travelway, for its entire width shall be clear
and unobstructed.
            b.   Gates located on one-way roads shall open in the same
direction that traffic moves. Gates located on two-way roads must open in both
the directions that traffic moves. Gates that open upward shall not be allowed.
      c.   Gates shall have a fail-open lock in the event of a loss of power.
      8.   No segment of the travelway of a private road shall exceed ten
percent (10%) grade. Fire apparatus roadways in locations that front buildings,
at intersections with other roads, and in front of fire hydrants, shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) grade.
      9.   If the private road is located within the wildland-urban fire
interface overlay district, the additional design standards listed in section
8-3B-3 of this title shall apply.
      10.   Upon the county engineer's review of the proposed private road
design, the applicant may be required to submit a drainage study before
constructing the private road.
   B.   Construction Standards 1 :
      1.   Private roads that will serve development located within an area of
impact and exceeds a density of three (3) dwelling units per acre shall be
constructed to the Ada County highway district standards for urban local roads.
      2.   All other private roads not defined in subsection B1 of this section
shall be constructed to the following standards:
         a.   Private roads that will provide frontage or access to four (4) or
fewer properties shall have a travelway with a minimum improved width of twenty
feet (20'). Private roads that will provide frontage or access to more than
four (4) properties shall have a travelway with a minimum improved width of
twenty four feet (24').
         b.   The travelway shall have a stable, compacted base.
         c.   There shall be a crown or transverse slope of two percent (2%) to
drain water away from the travelway.
         d.   The improved surface shall consist of six inches (6") of
compacted three-fourths inch (3/4") minus crushed gravel or other materials
approved by the county engineer. Private roads that provide frontage and/or
access to more than four (4) properties shall be paved with 2.5 inches of
asphaltic concrete.
         e.   Any segment of a travelway of a private road greater than five
percent (5%) grade shall be improved with asphalt or concrete paving.
         f.   For the purposes of this section, corner properties that abut a
private road shall be counted as taking access off the private road. Temporary
dedicated open space lots that were created as part of a nonfarm subdivision
shall also be counted as taking access off the private road.
   C.   Alternative Design Allowed For Private Road: Upon recommendation of the
county engineer, the director may approve, or recommend approval of alternative
design or construction standards when the applicant can demonstrate that the
proposed overall design meets or exceeds the intent of the required standards
of this article and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-
2003; amd. Ord. 628, 7-12-2006; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 848, 12-9-
2015; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1A-2, figure 13 of this title.
8-4D-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
In order to approve the application, the director shall find the following:
   A.   The design of the private road meets the requirements of this article;
   B.   Granting approval of the private road would not cause damage, hazard,
or nuisance, or other detriment to persons, property, or uses in the vicinity;
and
   C.   The use and location of the private road shall not conflict with the
applicable comprehensive plan and/or the regional transportation plan. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE E. MASTER SITE PLAN
SECTION:
8-4E-1: Purpose
8-4E-2: Applicability
8-4E-3: Process
8-4E-4: Standards
8-4E-5: Required Findings
8-4E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to:
   A.   Promote efficient, high quality site designs;
   B.   Preserve natural and scenic resources through design that is sensitive
to the environment; and
   C.   Ensure development is consistent with the goals of the applicable
comprehensive plan related to community design. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4E-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Unless specifically exempt under subsection B of this section, a master
site plan shall be required for the following prior to the issuance of a zoning
certificate or building permit:
      1.   New construction, addition, or moving of a structure.
      2.   Change of use of a property or structure.
      3.   Change of occupancy of a structure as defined by the Ada County
building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
      4.   Minor modifications to previously approved master site plans unless
specifically exempt under subsection
8-4E-3F of this article. (For the purposes of this title, traffic and
development plans, planned development commercial site plans, planned
development industrial site plans, and conditional use site plans that were
approved prior to the effective date hereof shall be considered master site
plans.)
   B.   The following uses shall be exempt from the regulations of this
article:
Accessory structure.
Agricultural use.
Bed and breakfast establishment.
Boarding house.
Dangerous or protected animals.
Distributed power facility.
Duplex or single-family attached dwelling.
Dwelling, additional farm.
Dwelling, secondary attached or detached.
Dwelling, single-family detached.
Electric distribution line.
Family daycare home.
Foster home, group.
Grain elevator.
Group daycare facility.
Home occupation.
Livestock confinement facility, less than or equal to three hundred (300)
animal units.
Manufactured home.
Nursery, wholesale.
Remediation.
Remediation, in situ.
Sign, nonaccessory, off premises.
Stable or riding arena, commercial.
Tower or antenna structure, commercial or private.
   C.   When located in a rural base district, the following uses shall be
exempt from subsections
8-4E-4A, B, and D of this article:
Agricultural service establishment.
Composting facility, commercial.
Livestock confinement facility, three hundred one (301) or more animal units.
Meatpacking facility.
Processing plants for agricultural and dairy products.
Slaughterhouse. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490,
4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 582, 5-25-2005; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 692,
4-23-2008; amd. Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011)
8-4E-3: PROCESS:
   A.   Application And Fees: The applicant shall submit an application and
fees on forms provided by the development services department as set forth in
chapter 7, article A of this title.
   B.   Natural Features Analysis: The applicant shall submit a natural
features analysis subject to the regulations of subsection
8-4E-4 D of this article. A natural features analysis is not required if the
entire subject property already had one completed from a previous approved
master site plan.
   C.   Parking Plan: The applicant shall submit a parking plan subject to the
regulations of article G of this chapter.
   D.   Information Required: The applicant may submit the following
information at the time of application. If not submitted at the time of
application, they shall be required to be submitted as a condition of approval.
Any approval of a master site plan prior to the submission and approval of the
following items shall be considered a tentative approval:
      1.   The applicant shall concurrently submit a landscape and screening
plan subject to the regulations of article F of this chapter.
      2.   If any outdoor lighting is proposed or anticipated, the applicant
shall concurrently submit a lighting plan subject to the regulations of article
H of this chapter.
      3.   If any signs are proposed or anticipated, the applicant shall
concurrently submit a sign plan subject to the regulations of article I of this
chapter.
   E.   Tentative Approval: The applicant has two (2) years to obtain all
necessary permits and obtain a zoning certificate. The Director shall determine
that all conditions of approval have been met and that the master site plan is
in conformance with this section before a zoning certificate is issued.
   F.   Minor Modifications: The director may approve specified minor
modifications to an approved master site plan, provided such minor
modifications were not subject to review or appealed during the original
approval or at the public hearing and will not adversely impact adjacent
properties. Such minor modifications include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Minor relocation of building pads for practical reasons such as road
alignment, topography or access, provided that the minimum setback requirements
are met.
      2.   Increase in building square footage, not exceeding twenty percent
(20%) provided that the minimum dimensional standard, off street parking and
loading, landscaping and screening, sign and/or lighting requirements of this
title are met.
      3.   Minor modifications to an approved off street parking plan,
landscape and screening plan, sign plan, and/or outdoor lighting plan that was
part of an approved master site plan, provided that the off street parking and
loading, landscaping and screening, sign and/or lighting requirements of this
title are met.
   G.   Issuance Of Approval Letter: Upon determination by the director that
the minor modification is in compliance with the standards in subsection F of
this section, the director shall issue a letter stating that the minor
modification has received final approval.
   H.   Other Modifications: All other modifications to an approved master site
plan shall be considered in accordance with section 8-4E-2 of this article.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd.
Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-4E-4: STANDARDS:
The master site plan shall meet the applicable design and dimensional standards
of chapters 2, 3, and 5 of this title. The site development (as depicted by the
master site plan) shall also meet the following standards, as applicable:
   A.   Location Of Structures On The Site:
      1.   Within a commercial base district, the proposed placement of
structures, location of parking areas and pedestrian walkways, method of
screening, and public entrances shall facilitate pedestrian access to abutting
residential properties.
      2.   Multi-family structures shall have varied setbacks within the same
structure and staggered and/or reversed unit plans to provide a more varied
outward appearance of the structures.
      3.   Structures within a multi-family development shall be rotated,
staggered, and/or reversed to vary the outward appearance of the structures.
   B.   Nonvehicular Access And Internal Circulation:
      1.   Within a commercial base district, structures shall have at least
one pedestrian access on each side of the structure that faces a street.
      2.   For proposed uses that require ten (10) or more parking spaces (as
set forth in section
8-4G-6 of this chapter), site development shall provide safe and well defined
pedestrian walkways from structures to each parking space, from structures to
the abutting streets, and among structures on the same site.
         a.   Where a walkway is within ten feet (10') of a street, it shall be
separated from the street shoulder by either curbs, intervening vegetation,
and/or swales.
      b.   Where a walkway is within a parking area and abuts driving aisles or
parking spaces, the walkway shall be separated by either curbs, intervening
vegetation, and/or wheel restraints. Where a walkway crosses a driving aisle,
the crossing shall have a different paving texture and/or material or shall be
striped to indicate a pedestrian crossing.
      3.   In planned unit developments and multi-family developments, the site
development shall provide a safe nonvehicular circulation system including, but
not limited to:
         a.   Pedestrian and bicycle walkways that link abutting parks,
schools, neighborhoods, and commercial areas to the greatest possible extent;
and
         b.   Trails and bicycle routes that link to abutting trail networks as
designated by the APA ridge to rivers pathways plan or the applicable
comprehensive plan.
   C.   Automobile Access And Internal Circulation:
      1.   The site development shall provide for safe access to and egress
from roadways.
      2.   Off street parking and loading areas shall be designed to preclude
vehicles from backing out into a roadway.
      3.   Where delivery vehicles are anticipated, the site development shall
delineate a clear route for them, with appropriate geometric design to allow
the vehicles to turn safely.
      4.   The site development shall provide adequate internal circulation
consistent with article G, "Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities", of this
chapter.
      5.   The site development shall provide an adequate design and number of
parking spaces consistent with article G, "Off Street Parking And Loading
Facilities", of this chapter.
   D.   Natural Features Analysis: The following features shall be mapped,
described, or noted as not applicable in the natural features analysis:
      1.   Hydrology: Analysis of natural drainage patterns and water resources
including an analysis of streams, natural drainage swales, ponds or lakes,
wetlands, floodplain areas or other areas subject to flooding, poorly drained
areas, permanent high ground water areas, and seasonal high ground water areas
throughout the site.
      2.   Soils: Analysis of types of soils present in the site area including
delineation of prime agricultural soil areas, aquifer recharge soil areas,
unstable soils most susceptible to erosion, and soils suitable for development.
The analysis of soils shall be based on the Ada County soils survey (United
States department of agriculture, natural resources conservation service).
      3.   Topography: Analysis of the site's terrain including mapping of
elevations and delineation of slope areas greater than twenty five percent
(25%), between fifteen percent (15%) and twenty five percent (25%), between
eight percent (8%) and fifteen percent (15%), and less than eight percent (8%).
Contour lines based on USGS datum of 1988 with intervals of not more than five
feet (5') for properties with a general slope of greater than five percent
(5%), or intervals of not more than two feet (2') for properties with a general
slope of less than or equal to five percent (5%). Contour lines shall extend a
minimum of three hundred feet (300') beyond the proposed development boundary.
If a drainage channel borders the proposed development, the contour lines shall
extend the additional distance necessary to include the entire drainage
facility.
      4.   Vegetation: Analysis of existing vegetation of the site including,
but not limited to, dominant tree, plant, and ground cover species.
      5.   Sensitive Plant And Wildlife Species: Analysis of sensitive plant
and wildlife species of the site including, but not limited to, those species
listed in the Idaho conservation data center (state of Idaho department of fish
and game).
      6.   Historic Resources: Analysis of existing historic resources as
identified on the Ada County historic resources inventory.
      7.   Hazardous Areas: Location and identification of all potential
hazardous areas including, but not limited to, land that is unsuitable for
development because of flood threat, poorly drained areas, high ground water,
steep slopes, rock formation, buried pipelines, or other similar conditions
likely to be encountered.
      8.   Impact On Natural Features: The applicant shall provide a written
statement explaining how the design of the plan protects or mitigates impacts
on the natural features of the site.
   E.   Screening: The site development shall provide landscaping and screening
consistent with article F of this chapter, landscaping, unless otherwise exempt
under section
8-4F-2 of this chapter.
   F.   Drainage: An increase in impervious surface area of one thousand
(1,000) square feet or ten percent (10%) of the property area, whichever is
less, shall require a drainage study. Site development shall incorporate
natural watercourses and above grade drainageways into the site design to
minimize the need for culverts, pipe systems, and concrete channels.
   G.   Water Supply And Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Adequate provision shall be made for water supply and sewage
disposal in accord with the regulations of section
8-4A-22 of this chapter.
      2.   The master site plan shall show all well locations and subsurface
disposal areas for wastewater treatment systems.
      3.   The master site plan shall address required firefighting resources.
Such resources shall include, but are not limited to, proper access for
firetrucks, water for fire flow, and/or defensible space.
   H.   Filling, Excavation, And Earthmoving: Filling, excavation, and
earthmoving activity shall be carried out in a way that keeps erosion and
sedimentation to a minimum.
      1.   Building design, parking lots, and other site development elements
shall fit, respect, and be oriented to existing topography and natural
surroundings to the fullest extent possible in order to keep filling,
excavation, and earthmoving activity to a minimum.
      2.   The area disturbed by stripping of vegetation, soil removal, and
regrading shall be kept to a minimum.
      3.   The master site plan shall propose permanent soil erosion measures
for all slopes and disturbed areas. Such stabilization measures shall be
completed within fifteen (15) calendar days after final grading has been
completed.
      4.   Until a disturbed area is stabilized, sediment and runoff shall be
trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or other
acceptable methods.
   I.   Historic Features: The proposed site development shall conserve
identified historic resources to the greatest extent possible.
   J.   Sensitive Plant And Animal Species: The site development shall minimize
adverse impacts to sensitive plant and animal species through site design or
approved mitigation programs. See subsection D5 of this section.
   K.   Irrigation: All development proposals shall provide documentation
preserving gravity flow irrigation systems on site and downstream.
      1.   The proposed development shall not modify irrigation canals,
ditches, laterals, and associated rights of way without written approval of the
irrigation or drainage authority and landowners affected.
      2.   When property is converted from an agricultural to a nonagricultural
use, the applicant or owner shall provide a pressurized irrigation system or
similarly efficient delivery system.
   L.   Utilities: Electrical, telephone, and other public utilities serving
the site shall be placed in a manner that is not hazardous or unsightly 1 .
      1.   All utilities shall be placed underground in a utility corridor or
easement. The director may waive this requirement if unique topographic or
geological features of the site make it impractical.
      2.   Transformer boxes, meters, pumping stations, and other components of
the utility system located aboveground shall be sited and buffered in accord
with the screening standards of section
8-4F-5 of this chapter.
   M.   Maintenance:
      1.   The applicant or owner shall have a continuous obligation to provide
for security, trash collection, and any other nuisance that may be created on
the site, and to maintain the site in a neat and orderly manner.
      2.   Any proposed drainage system shall be maintained by the property
owner, homeowners' association, or irrigation or drainage entity, as
applicable.
   N.   Supplemental Information, Modifications: The director, county engineer,
and/or decision making body may require supplemental information or
modifications where, in its opinion, site planning has not sufficiently
addressed the existing natural features.
   O.   Alternative Site Development: The director may approve, or recommend
approval of, an alternative site development when the overall design, as
proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of
this article and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 715, 12-3-
2008; amd. Ord. 763, 10-13-2010; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 8-5-3-83 of this title for power plants and other power generating
  facilities.
8-4E-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
In order to approve the application, the director shall find the following:
   A.   The master site plan complies with this title and the applicable
comprehensive plan;
   B.   The applicant has submitted a natural features analysis (subsection 8-
4E-4D of this article) identifying constraints presented by such natural
features, and the proposed development sufficiently addresses such features;
   C.   The proposed landscaping meets the requirements of article F of this
chapter;
   D.   The proposed parking and loading spaces meet the requirements of
article G of this chapter;
   E.   The proposed lighting plan meets the requirements of article H of this
chapter;
   F.   The proposed master site plan complies with the applicable base
district standards, overlay district standards, and specific use standards of
this title;
   G.   The proposed master site plan is consistent with the APA ridge to
rivers pathways plan; and
   H.   Adequate utilities and public services are available or provided for
the proposed development, and the development would not be premature by reason
of lack of utilities, transportation, schools, fire protection, or other
essential services. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord.
812, 8-14-2013)
ARTICLE F. LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-4F-1: Purpose
8-4F-2: Applicability
8-4F-3: Process
8-4F-4: General Landscaping Standards
8-4F-5: General Screening Standards
8-4F-6: Perimeter Landscaping And Screening Standards
8-4F-7: Parking Area Landscaping And Screening Standards
8-4F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to:
   A.   Ensure development consistent with the goals of the applicable
comprehensive plan related to community design;
   B.   Enhance the aesthetic appearance of streets, parking areas, and
development sites and visually screen and buffer incompatible land uses;
   C.   Preserve existing healthy trees and rare plants;
   D.   Encourage the use of native species and drought tolerant landscape
materials with the intent to maintain wildlife habitat areas and conserve
water;
   E.   Break up large areas of pavement, and provide shade in parking areas
and around structures with the intent to promote energy conservation;
   F.   Provide pervious surface areas to minimize storm water runoff and
promote ground water recharge; and
   G.   Separate pedestrians from automobile fumes, noise, and dust, and reduce
glare from vehicle headlights. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4F-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The standards in this article shall apply to all projects requiring
master site plan review unless otherwise exempt under subsection B of this
section.
   B.   All principally permitted and accessory uses in the rural base
districts as listed in table
8-2A-1 of this title shall be exempt from the regulations of this article.
Requirements of this article may be waived or modified by the commission for
conditional uses in the rural base district as listed in table
8-2A-1 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001)
8-4F-3: PROCESS:
   A.   A landscape and screening plan shall be required as a component of a
master site plan.
      1.   Within an area of city impact, the landscape and screening plan
shall be prepared by a licensed landscape design professional.
      2.   The landscape and screening plan shall contain the following items:
         a.   The location, size, and type of all proposed landscaping and
screening materials (including specific references as to the species of plant
materials), and verification that minimum landscaping and screening
requirements have been satisfied. All plants shall be shown at seventy five
percent (75%) mature growth.
         b.   Existing vegetation to be saved shall be identified on the
landscaping and screening plan along with protection measures to be used during
grading and construction.
         c.   If the proposed development project shall be completed in phases,
the phases shall be noted on the landscape and screening plan.
   B.   Landscaping and screening shall be installed to the satisfaction of the
director, in accord with the approved landscaping and screening plan, by the
beginning of the next planting season for that species after issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the project. The director may extend the time
limit for compliance up to one additional planting season after issuance of a
certificate of occupancy when circumstances beyond the control of the applicant
or owner warrant an extension.
   C.   Noncompliance with the standards of this section shall constitute a
violation of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4F-4: GENERAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
   A.   For the purposes of this article, landscaping elements are all exterior
enhancements of a project including, but not be limited to: deciduous trees
(shade and ornamental), evergreen trees, sidewalks, paths, site furniture,
trellis, fences, walls, sound walls, shrubs, flowering plants, vines, pots,
vases, window boxes, raised planters, and grade work such as berms, grassy
swales, and water retention features.
   B.   Existing trees, native vegetation, and rare plants shall be retained
wherever possible.
      1.   Existing native vegetation may be accepted in lieu of new plantings,
provided they contribute to achieving the intent of this article.
      2.   To control erosion and soil loss, the existing vegetation shall only
be removed from the current phase of the project.
   C.   Landscaped areas shall incorporate a hierarchy of plantings from ground
covers to shrubs to trees. Shrub areas shall incorporate a vegetative ground
cover wherever possible. If the site configuration or plant type prohibits the
use of a ground cover in conjunction with the shrubs, bark or other mulch shall
be provided.
   D.   The landscape plan shall include plant materials that provide seasonal
color during the spring, summer, and fall.
   E.   Within an area of city impact, expanses of walls or solid fences that
are greater than one hundred feet (100') along a roadway shall be interrupted
with offsets and provided with accents to prevent monotony.
      1.   For the purposes of this standard, accents shall include, but not be
limited to, other landscape elements as listed in subsection A of this section.
      2.   Offsets shall be designed with pedestrian safety in mind, such as
small alcoves with angled sides that provide full visibility.
   F.   All landscaping shall be designed to consider the microclimate of the
site and surrounding properties by addressing sun, shade, and wind for
increased energy efficiency.
      1.   Deciduous trees shall be the preferred method of providing shade in
parking lots and around structures.
      2.   Evergreen trees shall be limited to windbreaks, screening, and
accent purposes.
      3.   If unenclosed air conditioning systems are located on the west or
south side of a structure, trees shall be planted so that, at maturity, they
shade the unit during the months of July, August, and September.
      4.   Trees shall be planted so that, at maturity, they shade fifty
percent (50%) of ground floor window surfaces on the west and south sides of
each structure during the months of July, August, and September.
   G.   Landscaping elements shall not violate the clear vision triangle
requirements at a street intersection as defined in section
8-1A-1 of this title.
   H.   If the subject property is within a flood hazard overlay district, the
applicant shall propose a landscaping and screening plan that meets the intent
of the above standards and complies with the standards of the flood hazard
overlay district.
   I.   Installation of required landscaping shall be the responsibility of the
property owner.
      1.   All plant materials shall be planted according to industry
standards, using acceptable topsoil and automatically controlled permanent
irrigation systems.
      2.   All proposed plant material shall be in accord with the American
Association of Nurserymen standards in terms of size, character, and quality.
      3.   Trees planted within a sidewalk or other pedestrian traffic areas
shall be installed with protective tree grates with expandable centers. The
minimum size opening within the sidewalk shall be four feet by eight feet (4' x
8').
      4.   The following minimum plant sizes shall be required:
TABLE 8-4F-1: MINIMUM PLANT SIZE STANDARDS
Landscape Element (Plants)    Minimum Size At Planting
Shade tree                       2 inch caliper
Ornamental tree                  2 inch caliper
Evergreen tree                   7.5 feet in height
Shrub                            5 gallon container
Parking lot shrub                5 gallon container
Perennial or ornamental grass    1 gallon container
Note: Caliper shall refer to the trunk diameter as measured 6 inches above
ground level.
 
      5.   All landscaped areas shall be provided with a permanent and
automated underground irrigation system of such design and capacity to
satisfactorily serve the landscaped areas.
   J.   Maintenance and replacement of required landscaping and screening shall
be the responsibility of the property owner.
      1.   All plant materials shall be pruned, trimmed, watered, and otherwise
maintained to create an attractive appearance and a healthy growing condition.
No trees shall be severely pruned or topped.
      2.   Dead, diseased, stolen, or vandalized plant materials shall be
replaced by the next planting season.
      3.   Property owners shall keep landscaped areas free of weeds and trash.
      4.   Stolen, vandalized, or otherwise damaged fences and/or walls shall
be replaced immediately. Fences and/or walls shall be maintained to create an
attractive appearance.
   K.   The director may approve, or recommend approval of, alternative
landscaping and screening standards, as set forth in this article, when the
following findings can be made:
      1.   The overall design, as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds
the intent and the requirements of this article;
      2.   The existing conditions on or adjacent to the site including, but
not limited to, differences in elevation, existing vegetation, or the location
of existing structures or utilities would render application of the
requirements of this article ineffective; and
      3.   The overall design shall not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, and welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001)
8-4F-5: GENERAL SCREENING STANDARDS:
   A.   Screening Elements: For the purposes of this article, screening
elements shall include, but not be limited to: deciduous trees (shade and
ornamental), evergreen trees, berms, solid fences, walls, and sound walls.
Cyclone or chainlink fencing (with or without slats) shall not be deemed a
screening material nor shall such fencing be eligible for points as set forth
in table
8-4F-3 of this article.
   B.   Solid Fence Or Sound Wall: Where a solid fence, wall, or sound wall is
used for screening, the landscape plan shall incorporate vegetative materials
along the length of the screening to soften the appearance of such features.
   C.   Trash Dumpsters: Trash dumpsters shall be fenced or enclosed and
screened from public view. The sight obscuring screen shall be at least six
feet (6'), but not greater than ten feet (10'), in height. One side of the
enclosure may be left unenclosed or unscreened, provided that the trash
dumpster shall not be visible from a public roadway or an abutting property.
   D.   Outdoor Storage Areas: All outdoor storage areas shall be completely
fenced or enclosed and screened from public view. The sight obscuring screen
shall be at least six feet (6'), but not greater than ten feet (10'), in
height. One side of the outdoor storage area may be left unenclosed or
unscreened, provided that the materials stored in the area shall not be visible
from a public roadway or an abutting property.
   E.   Loading Areas: Loading areas (including, but not limited to, loading
spaces, loading docks, and service or maintenance areas) shall be screened from
public view. In addition, loading areas that abut a residential district shall
attenuate noise associated with such use by providing a sound wall and/or berm
with screen plantings around the loading areas or at the property line abutting
the residential district.
   F.   Berm Slopes: Berm slopes shall not exceed a rise to run ratio of one to
two (1:2) and shall be a minimum of three feet (3') in height.
   G.   Sound Walls:
      1.   Sound walls shall meet all the following construction standards:
         a.   The wall shall be tall enough to break the line of sight from the
noise emitter and the noise receiver on abutting property. See figure 15,
section
8-1A-2 of this title.
         b.   There shall be no break in the barrier between the noise emitter
and the noise receiver on the abutting property.
         c.   The wall shall be constructed of a rigid, dense material that
provides a noise reduction of ten (10) dBA greater than the expected reduction
in the noise diffracted over the top of the barrier as certified by a qualified
and licensed engineer or architect.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, the location, height, and
direction of the noise emitter and the location and height of the noise
receiver on the abutting property shall be determined as follows:
         a.   For outdoor address systems, the noise emitter shall be at the
height and location of the speaker and in the direction that the speaker is
oriented.
         b.   For parking lots, the noise emitter shall be at a height of four
feet (4') at any location where an automobile may travel and six feet (6') at
any location where a truck or trailer may travel. The noise shall be measured
in all directions that are not otherwise attenuated by a structure.
         c.   For loading areas, the noise emitter shall be at a height of six
feet (6') above the floor of the loading dock. The noise shall be measured in
all directions that are not otherwise attenuated by a structure.
         d.   The noise receiver on the abutting property with an existing
structure shall be at a height of six feet (6') above the floor (including
upper floors, if applicable) of the structure and any outdoor patio area.
         e.   The noise receiver on the abutting property where there is no
existing structure shall be set at a height of six feet (6') at any location
where a structure can be built. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4F-6: PERIMETER LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING STANDARDS:
The intent of this section is to establish landscaping and screening standards
required along the perimeter of the property. Table
8-4F-2 of this section specifies the standards for the minimum depth and
minimum number of landscape points required per ten (10) linear feet as
measured along the property line.
   A.   Property Lines That Do Not Abut A Roadway: All principally permitted
and accessory uses in the RP, RR, RUT, R1, R2, R4, R6 and R8 base districts as
listed in tables
8-2A-1 and
8-2B-1 of this title shall be exempt from the regulations of this article.
Requirements of this article may be modified or waived by the commission for
conditional uses in the RP, RR, RUT, R1, R2, R4, R6 and R8 base districts as
listed in tables
8-2A-1 and
8-2B-1 of this title. Where the dimensional standards for the base district of
the subject property require a setback of ten feet (10') or more, the following
shall apply, unless otherwise noted:
      1.   The minimum depth of the landscaped area shall be six feet (6').
      2.   Abutting a residential district, a minimum of sixteen (16) landscape
points shall be required per ten (10) linear feet.
      3.   Abutting a rural, commercial or industrial district, a minimum of
eight (8) landscape points shall be required per ten (10) linear feet.
      4.   The director may waive perimeter landscaping requirements along
portions of property lines not abutting a roadway where needed to accommodate
construction of vehicular cross-access across property lines and where cross-
access easements to adjacent properties are provided.
   B.   Property Lines That Abut A Roadway: Entryway corridors shall be as
identified in the applicable comprehensive plan. Interstate, arterial,
collector, and local streets shall be as identified by the Ada County long
range highway and street map functional street classification system.
TABLE 8-4F-2: MINIMUM REQUIRED DEPTH AND POINTS
 
Classification Of Street      Minimum Depth   Minimum PointsRequired Per Ten
Abutting Subject Property     Landscaped   AreLinear Feet
Entryway corridor             30 feet            12
Interstate abutting           50 feet 1          22
residential district
Interstate abutting rural,
commercial or industrial      25 feet            18
district
Arterial, collector, or local
street abutting rural or      20 feet            12
residential district
Arterial, collector, or local
street abutting commercial or 10 feet            10
industrial district
Private road                  5 feet             4
 
   Note:
   1.   This standard may be reduced where the applicant provides a sound wall
that mitigates noise levels to a comparable level as would be achieved by
meeting the 50 foot separation.
   C.   Required Number Of Landscaped Units: Required number of landscaped
units shall be based on a proportional scale. For example, if the landscaped
area were 440 linear feet and 8 units were required per 10 linear feet, the
total required points would be 352 ([440 ÷ 10] x 8 = 352).
   D.   Point Values: Table
8-4F-3 of this section specifies the point value for each landscape element.
TABLE 8-4F-3: LANDSCAPE ELEMENT AND ASSOCIATED POINT VALUE
Landscape Element Unit Point Value
Landscape Element                            Unit                Point Value
Shade tree (drought tolerant or native)      per tree            10
Shade tree (other)                           per tree            9
Ornamental tree (drought tolerant or native) per tree            7
Ornamental tree (other)                      per tree            6
Evergreen tree                               per tree            5
Shrub (drought tolerant or native)           per shrub           3
Shrub (other)                                per shrub           1
Flowering plants                             per 5 plants        1
Ground cover (drought tolerant or native)    per 100 square feet 3
Ground cover (other)                         per 100 square feet 1
Turf (drought tolerant or native)            per 100 square feet 1
Turf (other)                                 per 100 square feet 0.5
Berm 1                                       per 10 linear feet  4
Fence1                                       per 10 linear feet  4
Wall1                                        per 10 linear feet  4
Sound wall1                                  per 10 linear feet  6
Boulder with 6 foot or greater circumference per boulder         1
 
   Note:
      1.   Where a berm is combined with a fence, wall, or sound wall, the
points shall be cumulative.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001)
8-4F-7: PARKING AREA LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING STANDARDS:
   A.   The minimum perimeter landscaping for the parking area shall be as
established in subsection
8-4F-6A or B of this article as applicable. If perimeter landscaping is not
required by section
8-4F-6 of this article to buffer an abutting district, the minimum width shall
be six feet (6').
   B.   Any area with plant materials shall be a minimum of forty eight (48)
square feet, with the narrowest dimension not less than six feet (6').
   C.   Within a commercial base district, parking lot landscaping shall
include shade trees located to provide for adequate shade during the months of
July, August, and September. The required percent of shade canopy shall be
based on the number of parking spaces provided as follows:
 
Parking Spaces Provided Minimum Percent Of Parking Area To Be Shaded
1 to 25 stalls          30 percent
26 to 50 stalls         40 percent
51 or more stalls       50 percent
 
      1.   Trees shall be shown at seventy five percent (75%) maturity.
      2.   The percentage of area required to be shaded shall be the area of
uncovered parking stalls and pedestrian routes only and shall not include
driveways and interior traffic circulation aisles.
   D.   Berms, shrubs, and low walls (36 inches or less in height) shall be
used to screen parking areas from public sidewalks. Shrub species shall be
selected that do not exceed a height of thirty six inches (36").
   E.   Where landscaping elements abut parking spaces, the applicant shall
provide curbs, wheel stops, or two feet (2') of additional landscaping planted
in ground cover to protect shrubs and trees from damage by vehicles.
   F.   Pedestrian access shall meet the requirements of subsection 8-4E-4B of
this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE G. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-4G-1: Purpose
8-4G-2: Applicability
8-4G-3: Process
8-4G-4: General Regulations
8-4G-5: Design Standards
8-4G-6: Required Number Of Off-Street Parking Spaces
8-4G-7: Off-Street Loading Space Requirements
8-4G-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide regulations and standards for off-
street parking and loading facilities with the intent to provide off-street
parking areas, minimize traffic hazards and congestion, and mitigate impacts on
surrounding properties. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4G-2: APPLICABILITY:
The following standards shall apply to any new construction, alteration, or
moving of a structure or any new or more intense use of property. The number of
off-street parking spaces, as hereinafter set forth, shall be provided for all
allowed uses in any district. A greater number of spaces may be required in any
application involving discretionary approval. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4G-3: PROCESS:
   A.   An off-street parking and loading plan shall be required as a component
of a master site plan.
      1.   The off-street parking and loading plan shall contain the location,
size, and type of all proposed off-street parking and loading facilities. The
applicant shall provide a table indicating any applicable standards and the
calculations used to determine the required number of spaces.
      2.   If the proposed development project shall be completed in phases,
such phases shall be noted on the site plan. The applicant shall also provide
documentation on the proposed uses and the number of off-street parking and
loading facilities associated with each phase.
   B.   For residential and accessory uses that do not require master site plan
approval, the regulations of this article shall be reviewed at the time of
building permit application or accessory use approval, as appropriate.
   C.   Off-street parking and loading shall be installed and constructed to
the satisfaction of the director, in accord with the approved off-street
parking and loading plan. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4G-4: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Required Parking Spaces:
      1.   Required parking spaces shall be used for vehicle parking only.
      2.   Parking areas for residential use may be used for the parking of one
"commercial vehicle" (as defined in chapter 1, article A of this title) per
property, provided it is operated by the occupant and used to commute from home
to work at an off-site location or used as part of an approved home occupation.
   B.   Joint Use Parking: Joint use of off-street parking spaces shall be
allowed when the principal operating hours of the structures, structures, or
uses are not in substantial conflict with one another.
      1.   The required off-street parking shall be located not more than three
hundred feet (300') from the primary entrance of the structure to the nearest
entrance of the parking area, as measured along the sidewalk or pedestrian
walkway.
      2.   All parties involved with the joint use parking area shall submit a
written agreement to the director, signed by the applicable parties involved.
The agreement shall specify the following:
         a.   Party or parties responsible for construction;
         b.   Party or parties responsible for maintenance;
         c.   Regulations for amendments to the agreement that include notice
to the director; and
         d.   Regulations for termination of the agreement that include notice
to the director.
      3.   If the director finds that the agreement complies with the
regulations of this article, the applicant or owner shall record such agreement
with the Ada County recorder prior to issuance of any permits.
      4.   The joint use parking agreement may be terminated by the parties
only if off street parking is provided in conformance with this article and
approved by the director prior to the termination.
   C.   Continuous Service Drives: Continuous service drives shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Service drives are only allowed for multi-family developments, or
developments that are within the commercial and industrial base districts.
      2.   The minimum width of the continuous service drive shall be twenty
feet (20') and shall be paved with asphaltic concrete as approved by the county
engineer. The parking areas and drive aisles shall comply with section
8-4G-5 of this article. Where the continuous service drive also doubles as the
drive aisle, the minimum width of the continuous service drive shall be twenty
five feet (25').
      3.   The continuous service drive shall connect to a minimum of one
public road. The point(s) of connection shall be approved by the Ada County
highway district or Idaho transportation department based on the classification
of the public road. Continuous service drives shall be designed to discourage
cut through traffic.
      4.   The applicant shall provide written approval from the appropriate
fire district. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 763, 10-13-2010)
8-4G-5: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Design Of Parking Areas:
      1.   Design And Construction: All parking areas shall be designed and
constructed to provide the type and number of off street parking spaces
required by section
8-4G-6 of this article, and designed as required by this section.
      2.   Location: All parking spaces required by this article shall be
located on the same property as the use for which parking is required, except
as provided for in joint use parking in subsection
8-4G-4B of this article. For the purposes of this standard, all properties
within a single master site plan or planned unit development shall be
considered the same property.
      3.   Handicap Accessible Spaces: Handicap accessible parking spaces shall
provide reasonable accommodations to principal permitted structures and shall
be located along the shortest route of travel from adjacent parking to an
accessible entrance.
      4.   Additional Design Standards For Uses Requiring Master Site Plan
Approval:
         a.   Off street parking spaces shall not be located in any landscape
area as required by sections
8-4F-6 and
8-4F-7 of this chapter.
         b.   Parking stalls and driving aisles shall be designed in accord
with the standards in table
8-4G-1 of this section.
         c.   All parking areas shall provide on site turnarounds for all off
street parking spaces and loading facilities.
         d.   The design of off street parking areas shall not require moving
any car to gain access to a required parking space. (No tandem parking.)
         e.   Sidewalks located within the off street parking areas, outside of
public rights of way, shall be a minimum width of five feet (5').
TABLE
8-4G-1: REQUIRED AUTOMOBILE WIDTH AND STALL LENGTH BY PARKING ANGLE
 
   A          B        C        D        E          F
Parking Angle Stall Width Curb Length Stall Depth One-Way       Two-Way Driving
                                                  Driving Aisle Aisle
0°           9'0"        23'0"       9'0"        12'0"         25'0"
30°          9'0"        18'0"       17'8"       11'0"         25'0"
45°          9'0"        12'9"       20'5"       13'0"         25'0"
60°          9'0"        10'5"       21'10"      16'0"         25'0"
90°          9'0"        9'0"        20'0"       22'0"         25'0"
 
Note:   See section
8-1A-2, figure 16 of this title for an explanation of the column headings as
noted above.
   B.   Improvements:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all off street parking
areas shall be improved with a compacted gravel base, not less than four inches
(4") thick, surfaced with asphaltic concrete or some comparable all weather
dustless material. This standard shall not apply to agricultural produce
stands, roadside produce stands, rural residences, temporary uses, or temporary
construction offices.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all off street parking
areas shall be provided with a substantial wheel restraint to prevent cars from
encroaching upon abutting private and public property or overhanging beyond the
designated parking stall dimensions. This standard shall not apply to
agricultural produce stands, roadside produce stands, rural residences,
temporary uses, or temporary construction offices.
      3.   When a bumper overhangs onto a sidewalk or landscape area, the
parking stall dimensions may be reduced two feet (2') in length if two feet
(2') are added to the width of the sidewalk or landscaped area planted in
ground cover. In no case shall the width of the sidewalk not be ADA compliant.
      4.   Parking spaces and access lanes shall be marked including
handicapped symbols and signs.
      5.   All lighting provided to illuminate a parking area shall comply with
the lighting standards provided in article H of this chapter.
   C.   Bicycle Parking Facilities: Bicycle parking facilities shall only be
required for uses within an area of city impact. Bicycle parking facilities
shall meet the following location and design standards except in the industrial
base districts:
      1.   Bicycle parking facilities shall be located as close as possible to
the building entrance(s).
      2.   Bicycle parking facilities shall not obstruct pedestrian walkways,
public sidewalks, or building entrances.
      3.   Bicycle parking facilities shall not conflict with the Americans
with disabilities act.
      4.   Bicycle parking facilities shall support the bicycle and allow the
owner to lock the frame and front wheel with one lock.
   D.   Alternative Plan: The director may approve, or recommend approval of,
an alternative off street parking and loading plan, when the overall design, as
proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of
this article and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 591, 7-27-2005; amd. Ord. 733, 12-9-
2009; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012)
8-4G-6: REQUIRED NUMBER OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   A.   The minimum number of required off street automobile and bicycle
parking spaces shall be as set forth in table
8-4G-2 of this section. Where the standards require a fractional space, the
next larger whole number shall be the number of spaces required. When more than
one standard is provided, the standard that results in the greatest number of
required parking spaces shall apply.
   B.   One bicycle parking space shall be provided for every twenty five (25)
proposed parking spaces. The following uses shall be exempt from providing
bicycle spaces: duplex or single-family attached dwelling, additional farm
dwelling, caretaker dwelling for an approved use, secondary attached or
detached dwelling, manufactured home, manufactured home park, manufactured home
subdivision.
   C.   For mixed uses, the total requirement of off street automobile and
bicycle parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements of the individual
uses, except as provided in joint use of parking in subsection 8-4G-4B of this
article.
   D.   The number and design of accessible handicap automobile parking spaces
shall be in accord with the Americans with disabilities act.
   E.   Reserved off street automobile parking spaces shall be noted on the
site plan and each reserved space shall count as 0.8 of a required space.
   F.   Upon any change of use, the number of automobile and bicycle parking
spaces to be provided shall be calculated according to the requirement of this
article for the new use. For the purposes of this article, a change of use
shall include, but not be limited to, an expansion, alteration, or change in
occupancy resulting in a more intense use of a site, such as additional
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or other unit of
measurement specified as a standard in section
8-4G-5, table
8-4G-1 of this article.
   G.   The minimum number of required automobile and bicycle parking spaces
shall be provided and continuously maintained.
   H.   No parking area or space provided, as required by this article, shall
later be eliminated, reduced, or converted in any manner unless other
equivalent facilities approved by the director are provided.
   I.   Table notes are as follows:
      1.   Gross floor area shall be the measure of total square footage of
habitable space of a structure.
      2.   For fixed bench seating, one seat shall mean twenty four inches
(24") of linear length of bench.
      3.   The number of employees shall be based on employees present during
the largest shift.
   TABLE
8-4G-2: REQUIRED PARKING SPACE BY USE
Use Required Number Of
    Automobile Spaces
Use                                      Required Number Of
                                         Automobile Spaces
Auto use:
 Automobile, recreational vehicle, or    1 per 1,200 square feet of gross floor
 heavy equipment sales                   area
 Automobile, recreational vehicle or     1 per service bay
 heavy equipment service or repair
 Car wash                                1 per 2 drying stations
 Junkyard or automobile wrecking yard    1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Transit facility                        1 per 2 employees
 Truck stop                              1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
Cultural and recreational:
 Bowling alley                           2 per lane
 Campground                              1 per 2 campsites, plus 1 per 2
                                         employees
 Country club, lodge, social hall or     1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
 indoor recreational facility            area
 Golf course                             2 per hole
 Golf driving range                      1 per 2 driving stations
 Movie theater                           1 per 8 seats
 Outdoor recreation facility - open      4 per acre
 space
 Outdoor recreation facility or          1 per 8 seats
 structure
 Recreation vehicle park                 1 per space
 Shooting range, indoor or outdoor       1 per target and/or shooting station
 Sports fields                           20 per acre
Industrial:
 Contractor's yard or shop               1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area plus 1 per employee
 Manufacturing, processing (product,
 chemical, agricultural), research and   1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 development, brewery or distillery,     area
 winery, recycling, or centralized power
 facility
 Storage, agricultural uses, landfill,
 railroad, remediation, pit, mine,       1 per 2 employees
 quarry, or landing field
 Storage facility, self-service          1 per entrance to the site
 Vehicle impound yard                    1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 4 acres
 Warehouse                               1 per 4,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
Institutional:
 Cemetery                                1 per 2 employees
 Church                                  2 per 8 seats in main sanctuary
 Hospital                                1 per bed, plus 2 per 2 employees
 Public owned buildings                  1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Public utility and infrastructure       1 per 2 employees
 facility, excluding substations
 School, public or private:
  Elementary                             1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 12
                                         students
  Middle, junior high, and senior high   1 per employee, plus 1 per 6 students
 School, vocational or trade             1 per 4 students
Office and business services:
 Animal clinic, animal hospital or       1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
 veterinary office                       area
 Auction establishment, outdoor          1 per 2 attendees
 Business, personal services or          1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
 professional office                     area
 Clinic, medical (excluding animal or    2 per 500 square feet of gross floor
 veterinary)                             area
 Commercial kennel                       1 per 1,000 square feet, plus 1 per
                                         employee
 Composting facility, commercial         1 per 2 employees plus 1 per acre
 Crematory                               1 per 8 seats in chapel
                                         1 per 2 employees, plus additional
 Daycare center                          spaces or child loading area shall be
                                         specified in the conditional use
                                         permit
 Hotel or motel                          1 per sleeping room
 Laundry or linen service                1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Mortuary                                1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Nursery, wholesale                      1 per 4,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Office, temporary construction          1 per 2 construction employees
 Package and letter delivery service     1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Septage treatment and disposal          1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 facility, private                       area plus 1 per employee
Residential:
                                         1 per 2 employees, plus additional
 Adult respite care center               spaces or client loading area shall be
                                         specified in the conditional use
                                         permit
 Dwelling, multi-family:
  1 bedroom                              1.5 per dwelling unit
  2 - 3 bedrooms                         2 per dwelling unit
  4+ bedrooms                            3 per dwelling unit
  Visitor parking                        0.25 per dwelling unit for all multi-
                                         family dwellings
 Dwelling, single-family attached or     1 per dwelling unit
 detached or additional dwelling
 Family daycare, home                    None
 Foster home, group                      1 per 2 employees
                                         4, provided that on site parking may
 Group daycare facility                  be reduced by the number of on street
                                         parallel parking spaces in front of
                                         the structure
 Manufactured home park                  1 per space
 Nursing facility, skilled               1 per 8 beds
 Residential treatment facilities        1 per 6 beds
 Seasonal farmworker housing or boarding 1 per 2 sleeping rooms
 house
Retail:
 Adult entertainment establishment       1 per 100 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
                                         4 per each establishment plus 1 per
 Agricultural produce stand              200 square feet of area dedicated to
                                         the sale, display and storage of
                                         produce
 Gas station                             1 per 2 pumps
 Restaurant, bar or brewpub              1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Retail store                            1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Retail, supply and durable goods        1 per 1,200 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
                                         4 per each establishment plus 1 per
 Roadside produce stand                  200 square feet of area dedicated to
                                         the sale, display and storage of
                                         produce
 
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 582, 5-25-2005; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd.
Ord. 692, 4-23-2008; amd. Ord. 733, 12-9-2009; amd. Ord. 743, 2-10-2010; amd.
Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016)
8-4G-7: OFF STREET LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any structure having a gross floor area of five thousand (5,000) square
feet or more, to be occupied by a commercial or industrial use, shall be
required to provide and maintain at least one off street loading space. One
additional off street loading space shall be required for each subsequent
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross floor area (e.g., 25,000 square
feet, 45,000 square feet, etc.).
   B.   Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width and
thirty feet (30') in length and shall have fourteen feet (14') of vertical
clearance.
   C.   Parking and loading areas shall be designed so vehicles shall not back
out into the street.
   D.   No off street loading space shall be located closer than fifty feet
(50') to an abutting rural or residential district unless wholly enclosed
within a structure. No off street loading space shall face an abutting
residential district.
   E.   Any off street loading space located within fifty feet (50') of a
residential district shall not operate between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE H. LIGHTING STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-4H-1: Purpose
8-4H-2: Applicability
8-4H-3: Exempt
8-4H-4: Prohibited
8-4H-5: Process
8-4H-6: Standards
8-4H-7: Required Finding
8-4H-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide standards on the types, construction,
installation, and uses of outdoor lighting to conserve energy, regulate glare,
prevent the creation of a nuisance, and enhance nighttime enjoyment of
properties in Ada County without decreasing safety, utility, or security. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000)
8-4H-2: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this article shall apply to the following uses and
activities:
   A.   Any proposed development requiring master site plan approval.
   B.   Any stationary outdoor lighting in common areas of a planned unit
development or subdivision.
   C.   Installation, change, upgrade, expansion, or enlargement of existing
outdoor lighting. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4H-3: EXEMPT:
The following types of lighting are exempt from the regulations of this
article:
   A.   Light fixtures that have a maximum output of less than two hundred
sixty (260) lumens.
   B.   All outdoor lighting produced by the direct combustion of natural gas
or other fossil fuels such as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps.
   C.   Temporary holiday lighting used for forty (40) days or less per year.
   D.   Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed for fire
protection, police protection, and/or other emergency services.
   E.   All hazard warning lights required by federal or state regulatory
agencies. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4H-4: PROHIBITED:
The installation of any of the following types of lighting are prohibited:
   A.   Mercury vapor lamp fixture and/or lamp.
   B.   Laser source light or any similar high intensity light when projected
above the horizontal.
   C.   Changing colors, moving lights, or searchlights (for advertising
purposes) are prohibited in all districts, except where approved for temporary
uses.
   D.   Lighting, including holiday lighting, on commercial or private tower
structures that exceed the district height limit is prohibited except as
required by regulations of the federal aviation administration (FAA). (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000)
8-4H-5: PROCESS:
   A.   A lighting plan shall be required as a component of a master site plan.
   B.   The lighting plan shall show the location, orientation, and height of
all proposed exterior light fixtures, both attached and detached (including
those that may be exempt from the regulations of this article). The lighting
plan shall also detail the type and extent of shielding including cut off
angles and the type of illumination including the watts, luminous area, and
photometric test report for each light source. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
490, 4-9-2003)
8-4H-6: STANDARDS:
   A.   Two Hundred Sixty Lumens Or More: Light fixtures that have a maximum
output of two hundred sixty (260) lumens or more shall have an opaque top to
prevent up lighting.
   B.   One Thousand Lumens Or More: Light fixtures that have a maximum output
of one thousand (1,000) lumens or more per fixture shall have an opaque top to
prevent up lighting and the bulb shall not be visible.
   C.   One Thousand Eight Hundred Lumens Or More: Light fixtures that have a
maximum output of one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens or more shall have
a "full cut off shield" as herein defined. See figure 4, section
8-1A-2 of this title.
   D.   Floodlight Fixtures: Floodlight fixtures shall be located in such a
manner as to prevent direct glare into a roadway and to minimize impact on
abutting properties.
      1.   Floodlight fixtures shall be set to only go on when triggered by
activity on the property (sensor activated) and to go off within five (5)
minutes after activation has ceased.
      2.   Floodlight fixtures shall be installed so that they do not tilt more
than forty five degrees (45°) from vertical.
   E.   Up Lighting: Up lighting shall only be allowed in cases where the
fixture and any light it emits are shielded from the sky by a roof overhang or
similar structural shield.
   F.   Display And Security Lighting: Display lighting shall be turned off
within thirty (30) minutes after close of business and shall remain off until
sunrise or the opening of the business on the following day, whichever comes
first. There are no time restrictions regarding security lighting.
   G.   Installed Height Of Fixture:
      1.   The height of a freestanding light fixture shall not exceed twenty
five feet (25') or the height of the principal permitted structure, whichever
is less. Light fixtures mounted on a wall may extend to the full height of the
structure, but no farther.
      2.   The following standards shall apply to floodlight fixtures with a
maximum output of nine hundred (900) lumens or more and other light fixtures
that have a maximum output of one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens or
more. Streetlights installed by the Ada County highway district or Idaho
department of transportation shall be exempt from these standards.
         a.   Within a commercial or industrial base district, the effective
zone of light (as documented by the photometric test report) shall not trespass
on abutting residential properties. See figure 6, section
8-1A-2 of this title.
         b.   Within a rural or residential base district, the allowed height
shall be determined by the setback from the property line as set forth in table
8-4H-1 of this section.
TABLE
8-4H-1: HEIGHT OF LIGHT FIXTURES
BASED ON SETBACK
Height Of Pole Setback From Property Height Of Pole Setback From Property Line
               Line
Height Of Pole   Setback From Property Height Of Pole Setback From Property
                 Line                                 Line
1 foot to 3 feet 0 feet                15 feet        36 feet
4 feet           3 feet                16 feet        39 feet
5 feet           6 feet                17 feet        42 feet
6 feet           9 feet                18 feet        45 feet
7 feet           12 feet               19 feet        48 feet
8 feet           15 feet               20 feet        51 feet
9 feet           18 feet               21 feet        54 feet
10 feet          21 feet               22 feet        57 feet
11 feet          24 feet               23 feet        60 feet
12 feet          27 feet               24 feet        63 feet
13 feet          30 feet               25 feet        66 feet
14 feet          33 feet
Note: Table is based on the formula H (height) = 3 + D (setback distance) /
3.
 
   H.   Underground Electrical Feeds: Electrical feeds to outdoor light
fixtures shall be underground, not overhead.
   I.   Neon Illumination: Neon illumination shall be prohibited in the rural
base districts.
   J.   Alternative Lighting Plan: The director may approve, or recommend
approval of, an alternative lighting plan when the overall design, as proposed
by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this
article and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4H-7: REQUIRED FINDING:
In order to approve the application, the decision making body shall find that
the proposed lighting plan complies with the standards listed in section
8-4H-6 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE I. SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4I-1: Purpose
8-4I-2: Applicability
8-4I-3: Exempt
8-4I-4: Prohibited Signs
8-4I-5: Definitions
8-4I-6: General Regulations
8-4I-7: Business Signs
8-4I-8: Home Signs
8-4I-9: Parking Lot Signs
8-4I-10: Project Signs
8-4I-11: Property Signs
8-4I-12: Public Signs
8-4I-13: Public Gathering Signs
8-4I-14: Subdivision Signs
8-4I-15: Nonaccessory, Off-Premises Signs
8-4I-16: Temporary Signs
8-4I-17: Nonconforming Signs
8-4I-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to control and regulate the erection and
maintenance of signs in the unincorporated portions of Ada County, in the
interest of public safety, by: providing maximum visibility along highways,
assuring unobstructed view at connecting roads and intersections, and
preventing undue distraction of operators of motor vehicles, preventing
confusion with respect to traffic lights, signs, or signals. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
8-4I-2: APPLICABILITY:
The following standards shall apply to signs that are installed, constructed,
painted, or altered after the effective date of this title:
   A.   Signs Requiring Building Permits: The Ada County building code as set
forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code shall determine signs that require
building permits.
   B.   Signs Requiring Administrative Approval: Unless otherwise noted as
exempt in this article, any sign greater than sixty four (64) square feet shall
require administrative approval prior to construction and/or placement.
   C.   Interstate Roads And Primary Highways: The standards of this article
shall apply to all interstate roads and primary highways covered by the Idaho
highway beautification act, Idaho Code title 40, chapter 19, to the extent that
this title is more restrictive with respect to maintaining signs on such
roadways. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-3: EXEMPT:
The following types of signs, when not illuminated, do not require permits:
   A.   Directional or informational signs bearing no advertising message
located within a parcel, and signs not exceeding four (4) square feet in area
erected for the convenience of the public, such as signs identifying restrooms,
public telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities.
   B.   Memorial signs or tablets and names of buildings and dates of erection
when cut into the surface or facade of the building.
   C.   Traffic or other county signs, signs required to be mentioned by law,
railroad crossing signs, legal notices and such temporary emergency or
nonadvertising signs as may be authorized by the board of county commissioners.
   D.   Signs placed by a public utility showing the location of underground
facilities.
   E.   Business signs and project signs (as herein defined) when referring
solely to a principal permitted use of properties lying in a rural base
district.
   F.   Home signs for properties lying in a rural or residential base
district.
   G.   Property signs that are an accessory use for properties lying in any
base district.
   H.   Any sign which is visible only from the parcel on which it is located.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   No sign or sign structure, other than approved county and highway signs
shall be placed upon any street or highway right of way.
   B.   No rotating beam, beacon, or flashing illumination resembling an
emergency light shall be used in connection with any sign display. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000)
8-4I-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply in
addition to those in section
8-1A-1 of this title:
BILLBOARD: Any sign upon which advertising matter is posted and/or pasted
thereon.
BLANKETING: The term "blanket" or "blanketing", when applied to signs or sign
structures shall mean the partial or complete shutting off of the face of one
sign by another sign.
BUILDING FACE: The wall of a building fronting on a street, excluding any
appurtenances, such as columns, pilasters, canopies, marquees, showcases or
decorations, but including the parapet wall.
SIGN, COMBINATION: A sign incorporating any combination of the features of
projecting, roof and freestanding signs.
SIGN, HOME: An accessory sign or nameplate announcing the names of the
occupants or owners of the premises or the name of the home occupation
conducted thereon.
SIGN, NONACCESSORY, OFF-PREMISES: Any sign which directs attention to the use,
name, business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered
elsewhere than in the premises and only incidentally on the premises if at all.
SIGN, PARKING LOT: An accessory or on-premises sign erected for identifying and
informing the public of parking lot areas open to the public and of operational
procedures in connection therewith.
SIGN, PROJECT: An on-premises sign identifying a project proposed or under
construction, and may include the nature of the project, the name of the
owners, developers, contractors or other participants involved in the
construction of the buildings or the development of the grounds or project.
SIGN, PROPERTY: An on-premises sign erected for the purpose of advertising the
availability of the property for sale, lease or rent; or may include a private
or public announcement or the announcement of danger or warning in connection
with said premises.
SIGN, PUBLIC: An accessory sign erected for the purpose of identification of
the buildings, or involved institutions, and may include the dissemination of
information in connection with the program, policy or operation of public or
semipublic institutions owning or occupying subject premises, such as schools,
churches, hospitals, quasi-public bodies, clubs, lodges, clinics, professional
and executive offices, or information in connection with the property of
general interest to the public.
SIGN, PUBLIC GATHERING: An accessory sign erected to identify boarding houses,
multi-family developments, skilled nursing facilities, and/or daycare
facilities.
SIGN, SUBDIVISION: An on-premises sign erected for the purpose of identifying
the boundaries of the subdivision and may include promotional information
relating to the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted roof signs or sign structures that extend beyond or overhang
any exterior wall of the building upon which secured shall require conditional
use approval or as specified herein.
   B.   Where permitted, no more than one projecting sign structure shall be
allowed for each grade level use on each street frontage, plus one additional
projecting sign for each one hundred fifty feet (150') of street frontage
devoted to a single use.
   C.   No sign or sign structure shall be placed on private or public property
without the written consent of the owners, or agents thereof.
   D.   No sign background area facing the side or rear property line of an
abutting residential base district shall be located within fifty feet (50') of
such side or rear property line.
   E.   Flashing and/or animated signs shall be prohibited within three hundred
feet (300') of any property within a residential base district.
   F.   If the adjacent street grade to which the sign is oriented is more than
ten feet (10') greater than the grade elevation at the base of the sign
structure, the adjacent street grade may be used in determining the permitted
height. This provision shall apply to all freestanding sign structures.
   G.   Signs or sign structures erected or to be erected for a nonconforming
use shall not be enlarged, altered, located or otherwise provided, other than
permitted in this article or by section
8-1B-5 of this title.
   H.   Signs at railroad and street intersections shall not be permitted in
the "clear vision triangle" as herein defined.
   I.   For the purpose of preventing the blanketing of one sign by another,
the following provisions regulating the size of a sign and its location shall
govern:
      1.   No projecting sign shall be erected in the same horizontal plane
with other projecting signs unless the sizes are spaced as set forth in table
8-4I-1 of this section, measured center to center:
TABLE 8-4I-1: OVERLAP OF PROJECTING SIGNS AND REQUIRED SPACING
 
Overlap Of Projecting Signs   Spacing Between Signs
3 feet or less                10 feet
Greater than 3 feet to 4 feet 20 feet
Greater than 4 feet to 6 feet 25 feet
Greater than 6 feet           30 feet
 
      2.   Any projecting sign erected at a shorter distance than required
above shall be erected above the top edge or below the bottom edge of the
blanketed sign.
   J.   For the purposes of this article, distance for the purpose of
establishing location shall refer to the linear distance in either direction on
the street to which the sign faces only.
   K.   Illumination of signs shall be subject to the regulations in article H
of this chapter.
   L.   Unless otherwise specified in this article, signs shall have a minimum
setback of five feet (5') from any property line.
   M.   An application for any sign for which no regulation in this title is
applicable shall be considered by the commission under the conditional use
procedure as outlined in chapter 5, article B of this title, and such
application shall be approved or denied in accord with the intent of these
regulations. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001)
8-4I-7: BUSINESS SIGNS:
   A.   Business With Frontage On Two Or More Streets:
      1.   The proposed development shall be allowed its quota of signs on each
of the streets.
      2.   Where a business located on a corner is allowed a freestanding sign,
it may have either one such freestanding sign designed to be read from both
intersecting streets or two (2) freestanding signs where each sign is designed
to be read from only one of the intersecting streets.
   B.   Multi-Use Properties: Properties with more than a single use in a
commercial or industrial base district shall be allowed building business signs
that identify the shopping center or industrial park as set forth in table
8-4I-2 of this section and as follows.
TABLE
8-4I-2: BUILDING SIGNS FOR SHOPPING CENTER OR INDUSTRIAL PARK SIGN STANDARDS
FOR
PROPERTIES WITH MORE THAN A SINGLE USE
 
   Building Sign     C1 Base      C2 And C3     Industrial
   Standards         District     Base Distri   Base District
Maximum sign area    200 square feet 315 square feet  315 square feet
Maximum height, sign 35 feet         55 feet          55 feet
background area
Maximum height, sign 45 feet         70 feet          70 feet
structure
 
      1.   Building signs shall meet the following standards:
         a.   The maximum area of animated signs shall be twenty percent (20%)
of the sign area, except in the LO and C1 districts where the maximum area
shall be ten percent (10%) of the sign area.
         b.   Direct, internal and/or neon illumination shall be allowed,
except for roof signs where no illumination is allowed.
         c.   The maximum area of projecting signs is ten percent (10%) of the
building face. The maximum height of projecting signs shall be twenty feet
(20') above grade or four feet (4') above eaves or the parapet, whichever is
less.
         d.   Roof signs are allowed by conditional use permit only. The lower
and upper edges of roof signs shall be within four feet (4') and eight feet
(8') above the eaves of the building on which it is placed.
      2.   In lieu of building signs as set forth above, one freestanding sign
shall be permitted on each street frontage.
         a.   Maximum area shall be fifty (50) square feet for each street
frontage or one square foot of sign area for each linear foot of property
fronting a street, whichever is greater.
         b.   Maximum height shall be twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Direct, internal, or neon illumination shall be allowed.
         d.   Ten percent (10%) of the sign area may be animated.
         e.   No freestanding signs shall be closer to an abutting property
line than a distance equal to twenty percent (20%) of the width or length of
the property upon which the sign is located.
      3.   A combination of a building sign and a freestanding sign may be
used, provided all signs are reduced by fifty percent (50%) in sign area.
      4.   Signs in an LO or C1 base district shall not be closer than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from any property in a residential district except
the R12 and R20 districts, in which case the distance may be a minimum of one
hundred feet (100').
      5.   Signs in other commercial or industrial base districts shall not be
closer than two hundred fifty feet (250') from any property in a residential
base district except the R12 and R20 districts, in which case the distance may
be two hundred feet (200').
   C.   Establishments Within Multi-Use Properties: Establishments within a
property that has more than one use in a commercial or industrial base district
shall be allowed one or more building signs for each establishment as set forth
below:
      1.   The maximum area shall be twenty five percent (25%) of the building
face.
      2.   Maximum height shall be twenty feet (20') above grade or four feet
(4') above the eaves or parapet, whichever is less.
      3.   Direct, internal, or neon illumination shall be allowed.
      4.   Ten percent (10%) of the sign area may be animated. No revolving
signs shall be allowed.
      5.   Establishments above grade level shall be permitted to have business
signs as outlined in this subsection C, except that the area for such signs
shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%).
   D.   Single Use Properties: Business signs for properties with a single use
in a commercial or industrial base district shall be allowed one or more
building signs as set forth below:
      1.   The maximum sign area shall be based on the building face to which
the sign is attached.
         a.   Maximum area for wall signs shall be forty percent (40%).
         b.   Maximum area for projecting signs and canopy signs shall be
fifteen percent (15%).
      2.   Maximum height shall be thirty feet (30').
      3.   Direct, internal, or neon illumination shall be allowed.
      4.   Animation may not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the proposed sign
area.
      5.   In lieu of building signs as set forth in this subsection D, one
freestanding sign is permitted on each street frontage for any property:
         a.   Maximum area shall be sixty five (65) square feet for each street
frontage or 1.5 square feet of sign area for each linear foot of property
fronting a street, whichever is greater.
         b.   Maximum height shall be forty feet (40').
         c.   Direct, internal, or neon illumination shall be allowed.
         d.   Twenty percent (20%) of the sign area may be animated.
         e.   No freestanding signs shall be closer to an abutting property
line than a distance equal to twenty percent (20%) of the width or length of
the property upon which the sign is located.
      6.   A combination of a building sign and a freestanding sign may be
used, provided all signs are reduced by fifty percent (50%) in sign area and
the height to the top of the freestanding sign does not exceed thirty feet
(30'). (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-8: HOME SIGNS:
Accessory nameplate and home occupation signs are permitted and classified as
an accessory use in all base districts and do not require a permit.
   A.   One accessory nameplate and home occupation sign or combination thereof
is permitted for each dwelling.
   B.   In the R6, R8, R12, and R20 base districts, the erection of such signs
are subject to the following design standards:
      1.   Each sign, including combination signs, shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area and may be illuminated by internal illumination only.
      2.   Home occupation signs must be attached flatly to the building not to
exceed the height of the eaves line. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-9: PARKING LOT SIGNS:
   A.   Parking lot signs are permitted in R1, R2, R4, R6, R8, R12, and R20
base districts upon applicant submitting evidence that the commission has
approved the operation of an off-street parking facility. Such signs are
classified as an allowed use in all commercial and industrial districts.
   B.   All parking lot signs shall meet the standards set forth in table
8-4I-3 of this section:
TABLE 8-4I-3: MAXIMUM AREA AND HEIGHT FOR PARKING LOT SIGNS
 
Base District                            Maximum Area   Maximum Height
Rural and residential base districts     16 square feet 12 feet
Commercial and industrial base districts 32 square feet 12 feet
 
      1.   The sign shall not revolve or move.
      2.   The sign may be internally illuminated.
      3.   No roof signs shall be allowed. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-10: PROJECT SIGNS:
One or more project signs for contractors or other participants in construction
of buildings or development of grounds are allowed as a temporary use during
the term of construction.
   A.   The total area and height of all such signs shall not exceed the
standards set forth in table
8-4I-4 of this section:
TABLE 8-4I-4: MAXIMUM AREA AND HEIGHT FOR PROJECT SIGNS
 
Base District                     Maximum Area   Maximum Height
Rural, commercial, and industrial 96 square feet 12 feet
R4, R6, R8                        64 square feet 8 feet
RUT, RSW, R1, R2, R12, R20        64 square feet 12 feet
 
   B.   Signs may be internally illuminated. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-11: PROPERTY SIGNS:
Temporary information signs used for the purpose of advertising premises for
sale, lease, or rent, or as a warning or danger or trespass notice pertinent to
premises upon which a sign is located are allowed in all districts.
   A.   The maximum area and height shall be as set forth in table
8-4I-5 of this section.
TABLE 8-4I-5: MAXIMUM AREA AND HEIGHT FOR PROPERTY SIGNS
 
Base District                       Maximum Area   Maximum Height
Rural districts and RUT district    64 square feet 10 feet
R4, R6, R8                          16 square feet 6 feet
R1, R2, R12, R20                    32 square feet 10 feet
Industrial and commercial districts 64 square feet 10 feet
 
   B.   No illumination shall be allowed.
   C.   Signs may be freestanding or building signs. If the sign is a building
sign, the sign shall not exceed the height of the eaves. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-12: PUBLIC SIGNS:
Informational signs for public and semipublic buildings including churches,
clinics, clubs, hospitals, lodges, professional and executive offices and like
uses are allowed for each property, in all districts. Signs for civic events
shall meet the standards in subsection F of this section.
   A.   Maximum Area And Height: Maximum area and height for public signs shall
be as set forth in table
8-4I-6 of this section:
TABLE 8-4I-6: MAXIMUM AREA AND HEIGHT FOR PUBLIC SIGNS
 
Base District                       Maximum Area1,3 Maximum Height2,3
Rural districts                     64 square feet  12 feet
R4, R6, and R8                      32 square feet  8 feet
RUT, RSW, R1, R2, R12, and R20      64 square feet  12 feet
Commercial and industrial districts 64 square feet  16 feet
Notes:
1. Not to exceed one square foot in area for each 3 linear feet of frontage
of the principal building on the principal street, or as set forth above,
whichever is less.
2. Public building signs shall not project above the eaves of the building,
or as set forth above, whichever is less.
3. A larger sign may be approved as a conditional use.
 
   B.   Directory Informational Sign: One directory informational sign is
allowed for each property; provided, however, that such sign may not exceed
twenty four (24) square feet in area. The directory sign shall not be
calculated in the maximum allowed area as set forth in table
8-4I-6 of this section.
   C.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall not revolve and/or flash.
   D.   Roof Signs: No roof signs shall be allowed.
   E.   Illumination: Public signs may have direct, internal, or neon
illumination.
   F.   Public Signs For Civic Events: Identification and information signs for
public buildings and grounds used to conduct civic events including, but not
limited to: athletic fields, stadiums, auditoriums, fairgrounds and arenas, are
allowed with the following standards:
      1.   In the rural, industrial, and commercial base districts, one
freestanding sign shall be allowed along each street frontage in accord with
the following standards:
         a.   The maximum sign area shall be one hundred (100) square feet
unless the sign is located farther than two hundred feet (200') from the
boundary of any residential district, then one square foot of sign area shall
be allowed per each lineal five feet (5') of property fronting the street,
whichever is greater. In any case no sign shall exceed two hundred (200) square
feet in area.
         b.   The maximum height shall be thirty feet (30') above grade unless
the location of the sign is within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
boundary of any residential district, in which case the maximum allowed height
shall be reduced to twenty feet (20').
         c.   The sign may have internal illumination.
      2.   A public building sign for a civic event is allowed on the building
face that is oriented to the street on which the property has access in accord
with the following standards:
         a.   If the building sign is in lieu of a freestanding sign as
outlined above, the maximum area shall be fifteen percent (15%) of the building
face, not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         b.   If the building sign is in addition to a freestanding sign as
outlined above, the maximum area shall be five percent (5%) of the building
face, not to exceed sixty five (65) square feet.
         c.   The maximum height shall be thirty feet (30').
         d.   The sign may have direct, internal, or neon illumination.
      3.   In a residential district or within the Boise air terminal airport
influence areas overlay district, public freestanding signs and/or building
signs for civic events shall meet the following standards:
         a.   The sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in area.
For freestanding signs, the height shall not exceed twenty feet (20').
         b.   The sign shall require conditional use approval as set forth in
chapter 5, article B of this title. In addition to required findings in chapter
5 of this title, the commission shall also make the following positive
findings:
            (1)   That the location of the sign will not endanger motorists or
pedestrians and does not cause undue distraction to traffic on the adjacent
street or impede views at street or railroad intersections;
            (2)   That the sign will not obstruct views of users of adjacent
buildings to side yards, front yards, or to open space;
            (3)   That the sign will not distract, intrude upon or negatively
impact the visual quality of a residential neighborhood;
            (4)   That the sign is compatible with building heights of the
existing neighborhood and does not impose an inharmonious element to the
existing area;
            (5)   That the sign's lighting will not cause hazardous or unsafe
driving conditions for motorists and will not flare or reflect onto adjacent
business or residential areas;
            (6)   Signs in the Boise air terminal airport influence areas
overlay district must comply with applicable airport performance standards such
as glare and height restrictions; and
            (7)   Failure on the part of the owner to maintain the sign in a
neat and orderly fashion shall constitute grounds for the revocation of the
conditional use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-13: PUBLIC GATHERING SIGNS:
When applications have been approved for skilled nursing facility, multi-family
development, boarding house, and/or daycare facilities, identification signs
may be allowed in accord with the following standards:
   A.   One stationary sign is allowed.
   B.   In computing the area for the above signs, the sign shall not exceed
one square foot in area for each three (3) linear feet of frontage of the main
building on the principal street, not to exceed sixty four (64) square feet.
   C.   Freestanding signs shall not be located in the required yards.
Freestanding signs are allowed only when the building setback is at least
twenty feet (20') from the front property line. The height of the freestanding
sign shall not exceed eight feet (8') in a rural or residential base district,
or twelve feet (12') in height in a commercial district.
   D.   Building signs shall not exceed the height of the eaves line of the
building.
   E.   The sign may be internally illuminated. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-14: SUBDIVISION SIGNS:
Identification and informational signs for subdivision sales offices and model
homes in all residential, commercial and industrial districts are allowed as a
temporary use in accord with the following standards:
   A.   Maximum sign area shall be as set forth in table
8-4I-7 of this section.
TABLE 8-4I-7: MAXIMUM AREA AND HEIGHT FOR SUBDIVISION SIGNS
Base District Maximum Area Maximum Height
Base District                                  Maximum Area    Maximum Height
Residential base districts
Subdivision with a final plat                  96 square feet  15 feet
Subdivision with a final plat area of over 20  128 square feet 15 feet
acres
Subdivision sales office                       32 square feet  15 feet
Model homes                                    64 square feet  15 feet
Rural, commercial, and industrial base districts
Subdivision with a final plat area of 20 acres 192 square feet 15 feet
or less
Subdivision with a final plat area of over 20  256 square feet 15 feet
acres
Subdivision sales office                       64 square feet  15 feet
 
   B.   Signs may have internal illumination.
   C.   No roof signs shall be allowed.
   D.   All signs shall be stationary.
   E.   Banners, flags, pennants and similar displays are allowed as temporary
signs. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-15: NONACCESSORY, OFF-PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Applicability: Nonaccessory, off-premises signs shall be allowed as
follows:
      1.   Principal permitted use in the commercial and industrial base
districts.
      2.   Conditional use in the RUT and rural base districts.
      3.   Prohibited use in residential base districts, excluding the RUT base
district.
   B.   Allowed Number Of Signs:
      1.   In the LO and C1 base districts, the maximum number of signs allowed
on each street frontage or lot is two (2) except where a sign is attached to a
building, in which case only one sign is allowed.
      2.   In the C2 and C3 base districts, the maximum number of signs allowed
on each street frontage or lot is two (2).
      3.   In the RUT, RR, and RP base districts, the maximum number of signs
shall be ten (10) per mile or spaced no closer than five hundred feet (500')
apart, whichever may result in the lesser number of signs.
      4.   There shall be no more than three (3) nonaccessory, off- premises
signs visible to motorists for a linear distance of six hundred feet (600').
      5.   There shall be no more than sixteen (16) nonaccessory, off- premises
signs in any one mile. A nonaccessory, off-premises sign with sign copy on both
sides facing in opposite directions shall be considered as one sign.
   C.   General Standards: The following general requirements shall apply to
all nonaccessory, off-premises signs:
      1.   Nonaccessory, off-premises signs shall not project over public
property, except that cutouts may project not more than two feet (2') over
public property if the lowest portion of the cutout is at least fourteen feet
(14') above grade.
      2.   All visible portions of signs must be kept in good repair.
      3.   Signs in the C2 and C3 base districts may have animation on a
maximum of twenty percent (20%) of the sign area and such signs may be
revolving. Animated and/or revolving signs are prohibited in all other base
districts.
      4.   Roof signs are prohibited in the LO and C1 base districts. Roof
signs (and/or signs that extend above the eaves line or parapet wall of a
building) are allowed as a conditional use in the C2, C3, and industrial
districts.
      5.   Direct, internal, or neon illumination shall be allowed.
   D.   Construction And Location Standards:
      1.   The maximum area and height for nonaccessory, off-premises signs
shall be as set forth in table
8-4I-8 of this section:
TABLE 8-4I-8: MAXIMUM AREA AND HEIGHT FOR NONACCESSORY, OFF PREMISES SIGNS
Base District Maximum Area Maximum Height
Base District                  Maximum Area    Maximum Height
LO and C1 base districts
Freestanding signs             75 square feet  18 feet
Building signs                 75 square feet  Not above the eaves
Billboards (either building or 325 square feet Not above the eaves
freestanding)
C2, C3 and industrial base districts
Billboards (either building or 650 square feet 30 feet unless attached to
freestanding)                                  building
Freestanding                   50 square feet  30 feet
RUT, and rural base districts
Billboards                     650 square feet 40 feet
 
      2.   Nonaccessory, off-premises signs shall not exceed the following
lengths and overall area limitations; such limitations include the height and
area of the border and trim but exclude cutouts, supports and foundations:
         a.   The advertising area of painted signs shall not exceed eight
hundred twenty five (825) square feet.
         b.   Billboards shall not exceed 12.5 feet in height, nor twenty five
feet (25') in length, nor exceed three hundred twenty five (325) square feet in
area.
      3.   Billboard structures may be erected on each street frontage of a
property; provided however, that the full face of the sign can be viewed along
the line of travel to which it is exposed for a distance of at least two
hundred fifty feet (250') measured along the center line of the frontage street
from a point opposite the center of the sign and perpendicular to the street's
center line.
      4.   The vertical dimensions of a billboard sign face may be increased to
twenty two feet (22'), provided the required viewing distance as outlined above
is increased to five hundred feet (500'), and said facing contains only one
sign and the sign is perpendicular or within fifteen degrees (15°) of being
perpendicular to the frontage street.
      5.   Cutouts securely affixed to nonaccessory, off premises signs shall
be allowed, but shall project not more than eight feet (8') above, not more
than four feet (4') below, and not more than two feet (2') on either side of
the sign to which they are attached. The display surface area of cutout
projections beyond the borders of such signs shall not exceed one-third (1/3)
of the area of the sign to which they are attached.
      6.   All freestanding signs shall be completely freestanding and without
back bracing.
      7.   Signs shall have a minimum setback of fifteen feet (15') from any
property line. Signs in the RUT, RR, and RP base districts shall be six hundred
sixty feet (660') from the right of way of any primary or interstate highway as
set forth in Idaho Code section 40-1911.
      8.   The maximum height of nonaccessory, off premises signs erected upon
the ground shall not exceed forty feet (40') above grade.
   E.   Conditional Use Permits: All nonaccessory, off premises signs which do
not meet the general requirements of the provisions outlined in this section
shall have the request for such signs considered by the conditional use permit
procedure in accord with chapter 5, article B of this title.
      1.   The conditional use permits for signs under this section shall
automatically terminate five (5) years from the date of issue unless the
director approves a time extension.
      2.   Extensions beyond the initial five (5) year period or extended
period may be given at the discretion of the director, except that no single
extension may be given for more than three (3) years.
      3.   All signs authorized by this section within the RUT, RR, and RP base
districts, shall be limited to those which in the opinion of the commission are
primarily designed to offer a commonly needed service to the traveling public
and which fall into one of four (4) following classifications: gasoline,
diesel, or alternative fuel sales facility and associated retail sales or
services; restaurant or eating place; bed and breakfast establishment; and
hotel or motel.
      4.   Failure on the part of the owner to maintain the sign in a neat and
orderly fashion shall constitute grounds for the revocation of the conditional
use approval. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011)
8-4I-16: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Those signs herein designated as being temporary signs shall be completely
removed by the owner of the sign or by the owner of the property upon which the
sign is located at the expiration of the time for which the sign was permitted.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4I-17: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Nonconforming signs shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use and/or structure
(as applicable) and may be continued subject to the standards set forth in
chapter 1, article B of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE J. DEDICATED OPEN SPACE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-4J-1: Purpose
8-4J-2: Applicability
8-4J-3: General Regulations
8-4J-4: Design Standards
8-4J-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to encourage well designed open space within new
development, and to provide standards for dedicated open space areas and/or
uses approved as part of a development application. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4J-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to planned unit developments, master site plans,
and/or subdivision plats that include dedicated open space areas and/or uses.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-4J-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dedicated Open Space Plan: The dedicated open space plan shall include
the following information on a map of an appropriate scale and may be
accompanied by any associated documents as may be necessary:
      1.   The boundaries and legal description of all dedicated open space
areas;
      2.   Existing distinctive natural characteristics including, but not
limited to, prime agricultural land and topographical elements;
      3.   The dedicated open space uses;
      4.   Depiction of all impervious surfaces including, but not limited to,
structure footprints, driveways, or roadways; and
      5.   Description of the manner in which the dedicated open space area
shall be maintained, managed, and administered.
   B.   Required Dedicated Open Space:
      1.   Planned Unit Development: Not less than ten percent (10%) of
residential areas of planned unit developments shall be designated as, and used
exclusively for, dedicated open space, as set forth in this article.
   C.   Allowed Open Space Uses: The allowed open space uses shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Natural areas;
      2.   Agriculture;
      3.   Community garden plots for cultivation by residents;
      4.   Recreational areas designed for specific passive and/or active
recreational uses including, but not limited to, golf courses, tot lots, tennis
courts, swimming pools, and ball fields;
      5.   Greenways identified on the adopted Ada County ridge to rivers
pathway plan;
      6.   Lawns or ground cover with or without trees;
      7.   Riding trails and common pasture;
      8.   Use associated with a historic structure; or
      9.   Any combination of uses listed above.
   D.   Ownership: Dedicated open space shall be held in one or more of the
following methods of ownership:
      1.   Condominium: If ownership of the proposed development is held as a
condominium in conformance with Idaho Code, title 55, chapter 15, the dedicated
open space may be held as a common area of the condominium.
      2.   Homeowners' Association: The dedicated open space may be held in
common ownership by an incorporated homeowners' association.
      3.   Fee Simple Dedication:
         a.   The dedicated open space may be dedicated to a federal, state, or
municipal government body empowered to hold an interest in real property
subject to the laws of Idaho or the United States, or a charitable corporation,
charitable association, or charitable trust, the purposes or powers of which
include retaining or protecting the natural, scenic, or open space values of
real property, assuring the availability of real property for agricultural,
forest, recreation, or open space use, protecting natural resources,
maintaining or enhancing air or water quality, or preserving the historical,
architectural, archaeological, or cultural aspects of real property.
         b.   The applicant or owner shall submit for county review and
approval any offer of dedication and the terms and conditions thereof that
demonstrate the dedicated open space shall be maintained as dedicated open
space.
         c.   The board may, but shall not be required to, accept any portion
or portions of the dedicated open space, provided the land is accessible to the
residents of the county, there is no cost of acquisition other than any costs
incident to ownership, such as title insurance, and the board agrees to and has
access to maintain such lands.
   E.   Maintenance Requirement: In the event any owner of dedicated open space
fails to maintain same according to the standards of this title, Ada County
may, in accord with the dedicated open space plan and following reasonable
notice, demand that deficiency of maintenance be corrected and enter the
dedicated open space to maintain same. The cost of such maintenance shall be
charged to those persons having the primary responsibility for maintenance of
the dedicated open space.
   F.   Improvements: Required improvements including, but not limited to,
landscaping and recreation facilities within the dedicated open space areas
shall be provided by the applicant or owner. A surety agreement, as set forth
in article K of this chapter, may be required to cover costs of installation or
maintenance of such improvements. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-
2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
8-4J-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Consistent With Adopted Plans: The design shall be consistent with
adopted regional or local open space and recreation plans including the Ada
County ridge to rivers pathway plan.
   B.   Accessibility: The dedicated open space shall be easily accessible to
residents of the subdivision or planned unit development. For dedicated open
space within a master site plan, the dedicated open space shall be easily
accessible to patrons of the use.
   C.   Roadways: The number of private or public roadways that divide the
dedicated open space shall be limited to those necessary for proper traffic
circulation, and the roadways shall not detract from the efficient use of the
open space.
   D.   Structures: The dedicated open space shall be free of all structures,
except those that enhance the use of the dedicated open space including, but
not limited to, structures related to outdoor recreational use, well houses,
and stormwater retention basins.
   E.   Stormwater Basins: Stormwater retention or detention basins designed
and approved as part of the stormwater management system for the property may
be located within the dedicated open space area.
   F.   Impervious Surface: No more than ten percent (10%) of the dedicated
open space shall be impervious surface.
   G.   Additional Standards For Dedicated Open Space In A Planned Unit
Development Or Subdivision:
      1.   The dedicated open space shall not be less than one hundred feet
(100') in width at any point and not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet of contiguous area, except when part of a trail system, pathway network,
or pocket park for active recreational use.
      2.   The dedicated open space shall be connected to open space areas on
neighboring properties wherever possible including provisions for pedestrian
walkways to create linked walkway or pathway systems.
      3.   The dedicated open space shall have the required number of
automobile and bicycle parking spaces as set forth in article G of this
chapter.
         a.   Parking areas shall have safe and convenient access from an
abutting public street or other rights of way or easements capable of
accommodating pedestrian, bicycle, or vehicle traffic.
         b.   Required parking areas for outdoor amusement or recreation
facilities may be included in calculating the amount of dedicated open space.
      4.   When children's play equipment is proposed, a minimum of two (2)
shade trees shall be planted to shade the play equipment on the west and
southern exposures. Additional trees shall be at the discretion of the
applicant.
   H.   Alternative Open Space Plan: The director may approve, or recommend
approval of, an alternative open space plan when the overall design, as
proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of
this article and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
ARTICLE K. SURETY AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
8-4K-1: Surety Deposit
8-4K-2: Release Of Surety
8-4K-1: SURETY DEPOSIT:
   A.   In lieu of completion of improvements, or any portion thereof, required
by this title, the owner may deposit a surety and sign a surety agreement for
completion of such improvements. The surety and surety agreement shall be
deposited with the director on forms provided by the director.
   B.   The amount of surety called for shall be equal to not less than one
hundred twenty percent (120%) of the cost of completing the required
improvements. The estimated cost shall be provided by the applicant and
reviewed and approved by the county engineer.
   C.   In all cases the surety shall be drawn solely in favor of, and payable
to, the order of the county of Ada, in accord with the regulations contained in
the surety agreement by and between the guarantor and the county of Ada. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000)
8-4K-2: RELEASE OF SURETY:
Where a surety is accepted by the director and deposited as provided in section
8-4K-1 of this article, the surety shall be released subject to the following
regulations:
   A.   The owner shall submit a written request to the director to return the
surety. The request shall include the following documents:
      1.   A statement from the owner that the required improvements are
complete.
      2.   Two (2) sets of prints of the as-built plans and specifications for
all improvements.
   B.   The county engineer shall verify and certify that the required
improvements, as detailed in the surety agreement, have been installed. The as-
built plans shall be reviewed and approved by the county engineer.
   C.   Upon certification of the county engineer, the director shall give
notice to the county treasurer to release the sureties heretofore deposited
with said county treasurer in the manner and to the extent as provided for in
the surety agreement in accord with the regulations of section
8-4K-1 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE L. TEMPORARY USE
SECTION:
8-4L-1: Purpose
8-4L-2: Applicability
8-4L-3: Process
8-4L-4: Standards
8-4L-5: Required Findings
8-4L-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this article allow temporary uses on a property. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000)
8-4L-2: APPLICABILITY:
All properties within the county may apply for a temporary use unless otherwise
specifically prohibited in section
8-4L-4 of this article.
   A.   Temporary uses that require a zoning certificate shall include:
temporary signs, seasonal stands, fireworks stands, subdivision model homes/
real estate offices, and reapplication for an existing permitted temporary use,
provided that the permit has not expired or been revoked.
   B.   Temporary uses that require a zoning certificate and administrative
approval shall include, but not be limited to, new applications and
reapplications for an expired or revoked permit for: temporary living quarters;
seasonal events; or an existing dwelling, an existing secondary dwelling, or a
temporary manufactured home dwelling while building a new single-family
dwelling on the same site; or a small pit, mine, or quarry within a residential
district; or an anemometer or similar device. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 581, 5-25-2005; amd. Ord. 693, 5-14-2008; amd. Ord.
772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-4L-3: PROCESS:
   A.   The applicant shall submit an application and fees on forms provided by
the development services department as set forth in chapter 7, article A of
this title.
B.   The director shall apply the specific use standards listed in section
8-4L-4  and
8-5-3  of this article and the findings listed in section
8-4L-5  of this article to review the temporary use.
C.   The director shall determine that all conditions of approval have been met
and that the temporary use is in conformance with this section before a zoning
certificate is issued. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-4L-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Except for those uses that may be allowed in this title for periods
exceeding twelve (12) months, the use may be granted for a specified period not
exceeding twelve (12) months from issuance of the zoning certificate. If the
use will continue beyond twelve (12) months, then a conditional use and/or
master site plan application must be submitted and approved.
   B.   The use shall not result in the construction of any permanent structure
that would not otherwise be permitted subject to the regulations of this title.
   C.   No structure shall be located within the required yard, nor shall any
structure obstruct the "clear vision triangle" as herein defined.
   D.   Temporary signs, as herein defined, that are less than or equal to six
(6) square feet in area shall be exempt. Temporary signs shall not exceed forty
eight (48) square feet.
   E.   Seasonal stands shall be located in a C1, C2, or C3 base district. The
zoning certificate shall specify a beginning and end date.
   F.   Fireworks stands shall meet the following additional standards:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of a zoning certificate, the applicant or
owner shall obtain a permit to sell fireworks in accordance with Idaho Code
section 39-2604 from the appropriate fire district.
      2.   Stands shall be located in a C1, C2, or C3 base district.
      3.   Dates of fireworks sales shall comply with Idaho Code section 39-
2606.
      4.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title.
   G.   Subdivision model home/real estate sales offices shall meet the
following additional standards:
      1.   The sales office shall be located on a lot within a subdivision or
planned unit development, or on a space within a manufactured home park.
      2.   The principal use of the sales office shall be the sale of lots and/
or dwellings or renting of spaces within the development.
      3.   The sales office shall meet the construction standards for a
commercial occupancy as required by the Ada County building code as set forth
in title 7, chapter 2 of this code. The applicant or owner shall obtain all
necessary building permits as required by the Ada County building code as set
forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
      4.   The applicant or owner shall obtain a building permit to convert the
sales office to a dwelling or shall remove the sales office within thirty (30)
days of the sale or rental of the final lot or space.
      5.   Subdivision model home/real estate sales offices may operate
continually for over twelve (12) months upon the director's approval.
   H.   Permission to live in an existing dwelling or a temporary manufactured
home shall be granted until the completion of the construction of the new
principal permitted dwelling, or for not more than twelve (12) months,
whichever time period is less, unless otherwise permitted. The existing
dwelling or the temporary manufactured home shall be removed prior to issuance
of the certificate of occupancy for the principal permitted dwelling, unless
the existing dwelling or manufactured home is approved for use as a secondary
dwelling.
   I.   For standards related to temporary permits for a pit, mine, or quarry
in a residential district, see the specific use standards in section
8-5-3-81 of this title.
   J.   The applicant shall have a continuous obligation to maintain adequate
housekeeping practices so as not to create a nuisance.
   K.   For uses that require director approval, the director may require
additional conditions to mitigate impacts. The conditions may include, but not
be limited to, any or all of the following:
      1.   Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other
potentially objectionable impacts.
      2.   Limits on time of day of the specified use.
      3.   Other standards necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare and mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
   L.   Temporary living quarters shall meet the additional required standards:
      1.   The temporary living quarters is needed to house a member of the
owner's immediate family or the owner's employee.
         a.   Need for temporary living quarters for a family member shall be
justified for reasons of health, employment, or upkeep on the property.
         b.   Need for temporary living quarters for an employee shall be
justified for reasons of upkeep on the property, supervision of livestock,
healthcare of owner, or tending to crops. For the purposes of this section,
"owner's employee" shall mean a person employed on the premises by the property
owner and receiving not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the employee's
annual income from said property owners.
      2.   The temporary living quarters shall be a securely anchored
manufactured home.
      3.   The temporary living quarters shall not be permanently affixed to
the property, and shall be maintained in a condition to permit removal of the
unit upon termination of the authorized use or expiration of the approval.
      4.   The temporary living quarters shall have adequate sewage facilities
as provided for in section
8-4A-22 of this chapter.
      5.   No more than one temporary living quarters shall be permitted on a
property.
      6.   The property shall be maintained in a neat and orderly manner and
shall not differ in appearance from surrounding residential uses.
      7.   The temporary living quarters, any attached structures, and the
anchoring devices shall be removed from the property within thirty (30) days of
termination of the authorized use or expiration of the approval.
      8.   Temporary living quarters may be approved for a maximum of two (2)
years. The applicant or owner may extend the duration of the temporary living
quarters approval for up to four (4) 2-year time periods, by securing a zoning
certificate prior to the expiration date of the temporary use or previous
zoning certificate extension. After ten (10) years the applicant or owner may
reapply for a new temporary living quarters.
   M.   An anemometer or similar device for the purpose of determining
feasibility of a wind facility site shall meet the following additional
standards:
      1.   An anemometer for a distributed power facility, wind freestanding
tower shall only be allowed in the RP, RR, and RUT districts on property
containing a minimum of forty (40) acres.
      2.   An anemometer for a distributed power facility, wind freestanding
tower shall not exceed a maximum of one hundred twenty feet (120') in height,
including the maximum tip height.
      3.   An anemometer for a distributed power facility, wind rooftop shall
not exceed the height of the base district in which it is located.
      4.   An anemometer for distributed power facility, wind rooftop shall
only be allowed in the RP, RR, RUT, RSW, R1, R1M districts, on property
containing a minimum of one acre. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-
2001; amd. Ord. 693, 5-14-2008; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-
2011; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-4L-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   The proposed temporary use shall not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or welfare. The proposed use shall not adversely impact the
health and safety of surrounding residents, nor shall it create undue adverse
impacts on surrounding properties;
   B.   The proposed temporary use complies with all applicable county
ordinances;
   C.   The proposed temporary use complies with all applicable federal and
state regulations;
   D.   The proposed temporary use and facilities shall not adversely affect or
conflict with abutting uses or impede the normal development of surrounding
property; and
   E.   Adequate public and private facilities such as utilities, landscaping,
parking spaces, and traffic circulation measures are, or shall be, provided for
the proposed temporary use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Applicability
8-5-3: Specific Use Standards
8-5-3-1: Accessory Structure
8-5-3-2: Adult Entertainment Establishment
8-5-3-3: Adult Respite Case Facility
8-5-3-4: Agricultural Service Establishment
8-5-3-5 : Agricultural Structure
8-5-3-6: Agricultural Use
8-5-3-7: Aircraft Landing Field (Private Ownership)
8-5-3-8: Airport (Public Ownership)
8-5-3-9: Amusement Or Recreation Facility, Indoor
8-5-3-10: Amusement Or Recreation Facility, Outdoor
8-5-3-11: Animal Boarding With Outside Runs
8-5-3-12: Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Or Veterinary Office
8-5-3-13: Asphalt Or Concrete Ready Mix Plant
8-5-3-14: Auction Establishment, Outdoor
8-5-3-15: Automobile Or Recreational Vehicle Sales Or Service
8-5-3-16: Automobile, Major Repair
8-5-3-17: Automotive, Hobby
8-5-3-18: Bank
8-5-3-19: Bar, Brewpub, Or Nightclub
8-5-3-20: Bed And Breakfast Establishment
8-5-3-21: Boarding House
8-5-3-22: Brewery Or Distillery
8-5-3-23: Campground
8-5-3-24: Car Wash
8-5-3-25: Cemetery
8-5-3-26: Children's Treatment Facility
8-5-3-27: Church
8-5-3-28: Clinic, Medical (Excluding Animal Or Veterinary)
8-5-3-29: Club Or Lodge Or Social Hall
8-5-3-30: Composting Facility, Commercial
8-5-3-31: Contractor's Yard Or Shop
8-5-3-32: Crematory
8-5-3-25: Children's Treatment Facility
8-5-3-26: Church
8-5-3-33: Dangerous Or Protected Animals
8-5-3-34: Daycares; Daycare Center, Family Daycare Home And Group Daycare
Facility
8-5-3-35: Drive-Up Window Service
8-5-3-36: Drug And Alcohol Treatment Facility
8-5-3-37: Duplex, Townhouse Or Single-Family Attached Dwelling
8-5-3-38: Dwelling, Additional Farm
8-5-3-39: Dwelling, Caretaker For An Approved Use
8-5-3-40: Dwelling, Secondary Attached Or Detached
8-5-3-41: Dwelling, Single-Family Detached
8-5-3-42: Explosive Manufacturing Or Storage
8-5-3-43: Farm, Garden, Lumber, Or Building Supply Store
8-5-3-44: Fence; Barbed Wire, Electric Wire Or Other
8-5-3-45: Flammable Substance Storage
8-5-3-46: Foster Home, Group
8-5-3-47: Foundry
8-5-3-48: Freight Or Truck Terminal
8-5-3-49: Fuel Cell
8-5-3-50: Gasoline, Diesel Or Alternative Fuel Sales Facility
8-5-3-51: Golf Course And Country Club
8-5-3-52: Grain Elevator
8-5-3-53: Heavy Equipment Sales, Rental Or Service
8-5-3-54: Home Occupation
8-5-3-55: Hospital
8-5-3-56: Hotel Or Motel
8-5-3-57: Junkyard Or Automobile Wrecking Yard
8-5-3-58: Kennel, Commercial
8-5-3-59: Kennel, Hobby
8-5-3-60: Laundromat
8-5-3-61: Laundry Or Linen Supply
8-5-3-62: Livestock Confinement Facility
8-5-3-63: Manufacture Of Electronic Or Electrical Products
8-5-3-64: Manufacture Or Processing Of Hazardous Chemicals Or Gases
8-5-3-65: Manufactured Home
8-5-3-66: Manufactured Home Park
8-5-3-67: Manufactured Home Storage
8-5-3-68: Manufactured Home Subdivision Or Park In A Manufactured Home District
(R1M, R8M)
8-5-3-69: Meatpacking Facility
8-5-3-70: Mortuary
8-5-3-71: Multi-Family Development
8-5-3-72: Nursery, Wholesale Or Retail
8-5-3-73: Nursing Facility, Skilled
8-5-3-74: Office Building
8-5-3-75: Office, Relating To An Approved Use
8-5-3-76: Office, Temporary Construction
8-5-3-77: Off Street Parking Facility
8-5-3-78: Outdoor Storage Area, For An Approved Use
8-5-3-79: Package And Letter Delivery Service
8-5-3-80: Personal, Business, Or Professional Service
8-5-3-81: Pit, Mine, Or Quarry
8-5-3-82: Portable Classroom
8-5-3-83: Power Facility, Centralized Power Facility, Distributed Power
Facility, Electric Distribution Line, Electric Subtransmission Line, And
Electric Transmission Line And Substations
8-5-3-84: Processing Plants For Agricultural Or Dairy Products
8-5-3-85: Product Fabrication, Assembly, Or Packaging
8-5-3-86: Product Stand, Agricultural Or Roadside
8-5-3-87: Public Or Quasi-Public Use
8-5-3-88: Racetrack, Vehicle Or Animal
8-5-3-89: Radio And Television Broadcasting Station
8-5-3-90: Railroad Switching Yard
8-5-3-91: Recreational Vehicle Park
8-5-3-92: Recycling Center
8-5-3-93: Recycling Plant
8-5-3-94: Research And Development Facility
8-5-3-95: Residential Care Facility
8-5-3-96: Restaurant Or Eating Place
8-5-3-97: Retail Sales, Relating To An Approved Use
8-5-3-98: Retail Store
8-5-3-99: Sanitary Landfill, Restricted
8-5-3-100: Sawmill Or Planing Mill
8-5-3-101: School, Public Or Private
8-5-3-102: School, Vocational Or Trade
8-5-3-103: Seasonal Farmworker Housing
8-5-3-104: Septage Treatment And Disposal Facility, Private
8-5-3-105: Shooting Range
8-5-3-106: Slaughterhouse
8-5-3-107: Soil Or Water Remediation
8-5-3-108: Stable Or Riding Arena, Commercial
8-5-3-109: Storage Facility, Self-Service And Storage Facility, Self-Service -
Outdoor Only
8-5-3-110: Structure Greater Than Ten Thousand Square Feet
8-5-3-111: Studio
8-5-3-112: Swimming Pool, Private
8-5-3-113: Tannery
8-5-3-114: Tower Or Antenna Structure, Commercial
8-5-3-115: Tower Or Antenna Structure, Private
8-5-3-116: Transit Facility
8-5-3-117: Truck Stop
8-5-3-118: Vehicle Impound Yard
8-5-3-119: Warehouse
8-5-3-120: Winery
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter provides specific standards for all uses as set forth
within the applicable base district 1  or overlay district 2 .
   B.   Article A of this chapter sets forth the procedures and required
findings for accessory uses.
   C.   Article B of this chapter sets forth the procedures, general standards,
and required findings for conditional uses. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
2 2. See chapter 3 of this title.
8-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations apply to any property in unincorporated Ada County where the
specific use is listed as a permitted, accessory, or conditional use in the
base district or otherwise allowed by an overlay district. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
8-5-3: SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS:
These standards are in addition to the requirements of chapter 4, "Regulations
Applying To All Districts", of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902,
10-2-2019)
8-5-3-1: ACCESSORY STRUCTURE 1 :
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   A principal permitted dwelling with a valid certificate of
occupancy, or a principal permitted dwelling under construction with a valid
building permit, shall be present on the subject property.
      2.   The structure shall not be used as an additional dwelling, except as
provided for secondary dwellings 2 .
      3.   The structure shall not be used for commercial or industrial
purposes.
      4.   The accessory structure shall not be used to store commercial
vehicles, except as provided in subsection
8-4G-4A2 of this title.
      5.   All accessory structures shall be included in the coverage
calculations for a particular property.
   B.   Location Standards: The location of accessory structures shall be
restricted as follows:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be located in any required setbacks
or on any publicly dedicated easements.
      2.   Accessory structures in the front yard shall not impede connection
of the dwelling to a municipal wastewater collection and treatment system.
      3.   Accessory structures in the front yard shall not block the view of
the main entrance to the principal permitted dwelling.
   C.   Size Standards: The size of accessory structures shall be restricted as
follows:
      1.   Accessory structures in the front yard of parcels less than one (1)
acre in size shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the square footage of the
footprint of the principal permitted dwelling or one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet, whichever is less.
   D.   Height Standards: The height of an accessory structure shall be
restricted as follows:
      1.   An accessory structure shall not exceed a height of twenty four feet
(24').
      2.   In a residential base district, accessory structures located in the
front yard, or within a side yard if any portion of the structure lies between
the front property line and a distance of fifteen feet (15') behind the front
wall of the principal permitted dwelling, shall not exceed the height of the
principal permitted dwelling.
   E.   Design Standards:
      1.   All accessory structures shall meet all of the following design
standards:
         a.   The roofing and finish materials shall be similar in color to the
principal permitted dwelling;
         b.   The roof shall have a similar pitch to that of the principal
permitted dwelling.
      2.   Accessory structures greater than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet shall meet the following additional standards:
         a.   The accessory structure shall portray the architectural character
of the principal permitted dwelling. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-
2003; amd. Ord. 581, 5-25-2005; amd. Ord. 713, 11-12-2008; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019 ; amd. Ord. 934, 12-21-2021 )
 
Notes
1 1. For structures devoted exclusively to agricultural uses on a farm, see
  section 8-5-3-4, "Agricultural Structure", of this chapter.
2 2. See section
  8-5-3-40 of this chapter.
8-5-3-2: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   Separations: In recognition of Idaho Code section 67-6533, the
following distance separations shall be required:
      1.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be allowed within one
thousand feet (1,000') of another existing adult entertainment establishment.
      2.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within two
thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of any church or place of religious
worship.
      3.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within two
thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of any school as herein defined.
      4.   The applicant shall provide evidence certified by a professional
land surveyor licensed in the state of Idaho that the proposed adult
entertainment establishment conforms to the separation requirements of this
subsection A.
   B.   Signs:
      1.   All adult entertainment establishments shall comply with the
regulations of chapter 4, article I of this title. Further, signs for adult
entertainment establishments shall not contain any emphasis, either by
movement, picture, or otherwise, on matter relating to "adult entertainment" as
herein defined.
      2.   Any business providing adult entertainment or adult material shall
have in place at each entrance to such business a legible door sign (as defined
herein) stating "Persons under 18 years of age not permitted". The sign shall
be no less than 0.5 square feet and no greater than one square foot in area.
Such sign shall not require administrative approval as set forth in chapter 4,
article I, "Sign Regulations", of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-3: ADULT RESPITE CARE FACILITY: 
There are no additional standards for for this specific use. (Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019)
8-5-3-4: AGRICULTURAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT:  
The proposed use must serve a rural district with agricultural services as
herein defined. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-5: GRICULTURAL STRUCTURE:
   A.   The structure shall be located on a "farm" as herein defined.
   B.   The structure shall be exclusively for agricultural uses. This
structure shall not be used for residential, commercial or industrial purposes.
   C.   The structure shall comply with the dimensional standards for the
applicable base and overlay districts.
   D.   The applicant shall obtain a zoning certificate prior to construction;
however, the structure shall be exempt from requirements of a building permit.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-6: AGRICULTURAL USE:  
The use shall be conducted on a "farm" as herein defined. The application of
fertilizer or process wastewater at agronomic rates shall be deemed a component
of the agricultural use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-7: AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD (PRIVATE OWNERSHIP):
   A.   Prior to application, the applicant or owner shall receive airspace
approval from the federal aviation administration.
   B.   The runway design shall comply with the design and construction
standards and recommendations in the federal aviation administration handbook
entitled "Airport Design", advisory circular 150/5300-13.
   C.   If applicable, the applicant shall provide verification of compliance
with the regulations and requirements of the following agencies:
      1.   Federal aviation administration.
      2.   Idaho transportation department (bureau of aeronautics).
      3.   Idaho military division-national guard.
      4.   The city of Boise airport commission.
   D.   Any accessory uses including, but not limited to, fuel storage areas,
structures or facilities for storing and maintenance of aircraft, and any
outdoor storage or tie down areas shall be included on the master site plan for
the aircraft landing field.
   E.   As applicable, the applicant shall obtain written approval for fuel
tanks from Idaho division of environmental quality, Idaho department of water
resources, and the appropriate fire authority.
   F.   The aircraft landing field shall be prohibited within the following
areas:
      1.   The Snake River natural area birds of prey and canyon preservation
as noted on the Ada County comprehensive plan generalized future land use map;
or
      2.   The Snake River birds of prey national conservation area. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-8: AIRPORT (PUBLIC OWNERSHIP):
   A.   If applicable, the applicant shall provide verification of compliance
with the regulations and requirements of the following agencies:
      1.   Federal aviation administration.
      2.   Idaho transportation department (bureau of aeronautics).
      3.   Idaho military division-national guard.
      4.   The city of Boise airport commission.
   B.   The proposed airport shall meet the design standards of the federal
aviation administration for the particular class or field. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-9: AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR:  
There are no additional standards for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-10: AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY, OUTDOOR:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   All structures or outdoor recreation areas shall maintain a minimum
setback of one hundred feet (100') from any residential districts.
      2.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the amusement or
recreation facility shall comply with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code.
      3.   All outdoor activities and events shall be scheduled so as to
complete all activity by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. All illumination shall be
terminated no later than one hour after conclusion of the event.
   B.   Drive-In Theater:
      1.   The projection screen shall not be located nearer than fifty feet
(50') from any public street, shall not be visible from a public street, and
shall not be located nearer than three hundred feet (300') from a residential
district.
      2.   The site shall have access from a principal or minor arterial.
Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property, but outside the
theater entrance. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent
obstruction of the public right of way by theater patrons.
      3.   A six foot (6') sight obscuring fence, wall, or screen shall be
included in the landscape plan for all property lines abutting a residential
district.
      4.   No central loudspeakers shall be permitted. Individual loudspeakers
shall be designed to be heard by the occupants of one vehicle only.
      5.   Accessory retail uses (including, but not limited to, food or
beverage service) associated with the theater may be allowed if designed for
use by patrons of the drive-in theater only.
   C.   Golf Driving Range: Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment shall
be allowed. The golf driving range shall be designed to protect abutting
property and roadways from golf balls.
   D.   Swimming Pool: Any outdoor swimming pool shall be completely enclosed
within a six foot (6') barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County
building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-11: ANIMAL BOARDING WITH OUTSIDE RUNS:
   A.   A six hundred foot (600') separation shall be maintained between the
area and structures where animals are housed and any property line.
   B.   Outside runs for commercial kennels shall be operated only with an
attendant present on the premises twenty four (24) hours a day.
   C.   Adequate fencing shall be provided to restrain animals from running at
large. At a minimum, the animals shall be enclosed within a six foot (6') fence
or wall. Electronic fences shall not be used as the sole method of restraining
animals. In residential districts, visual screening shall be required to buffer
adjacent land uses. (See also section
8-5-3-44 of this chapter.)
   D.   If located within airport influence area B-1, B, or C, the animals
shall not spend more than two (2) hours each day outside a structure as set
forth in chapter 3, article A of this title.
   E.   Five percent (5%) of the building floor area, excluding the kennel
area, may be used for related retail sales.
   F.   A grooming facility is allowed, but not to occupy more than thirty five
percent (35%) of the building floor area, excluding the kennel area. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-12: ANIMAL CLINIC, ANIMAL HOSPITAL, OR VETERINARY OFFICE: The facility
shall comply with all county and state regulations relative to such use. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-13: ASPHALT OR CONCRETE READY MIX PLANT:
   A.   Asphalt mixing and concrete batching may only be allowed as accessory
uses to a pit, mine, or quarry in an industrial or rural district. See section
8-5-3-81 of this chapter.
   B.   Any structure or equipment shall be a minimum of one thousand feet
(1,000') from any dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or caretaker of
the subject property.
   C.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-14: AUCTION ESTABLISHMENT, OUTDOOR:
   A.   Outdoor livestock and merchandise auctions shall be allowed in the
rural districts. In all other districts, only outdoor merchandise auctions
shall be allowed. See section
8-5-3-97 (retail store) of this chapter for indoor auctions.
   B.   A three hundred foot (300') separation shall be maintained between the
area and structures where animals are housed and any residential district. This
requirement may be waived where the owner and/or operator of the establishment
can demonstrate that the area or structure in which the animals are housed
shall not allow sound or odors to be transmitted to the residential district.
   C.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-15: AUTOMOBILE OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SALES OR SERVICE:
   A.   The use shall not constitute a junkyard.
   B.   All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and
lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   C.   Outdoor storage of accessories, replacement parts, or discarded parts
shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
   D.   Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a sight
obscuring fence, wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not
be visible from any street or private road.
   E.   Automotive sales and rental areas shall be subject to the landscape and
screening requirement of parking areas in section
8-4F-7 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-16: AUTOMOBILE, MAJOR REPAIR:
   A.   The use shall not constitute a "junkyard" as herein defined.
   B.   All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and
lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   C.   Outdoor storage of accessories, replacement parts, or discarded parts
shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
   D.   Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a sight
obscuring fence, wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not
be visible from any street or private road. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-17: AUTOMOTIVE, HOBBY:  
It is the intent of this regulation to allow for restoration, maintenance, and/
or preservation of motor vehicles as a hobby. The following standards shall
apply:
   A.   There shall be no wholesale or retail sale of automotive parts or
supplies.
   B.   There shall be no commercial restoration, repair, or maintenance of
motor vehicles.
   C.   The site for an automotive hobby shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance.
   D.   Not more than two (2) inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered motor
vehicles may be visible from any street or private road. All other inoperable,
dismantled, or unregistered motor vehicles shall be stored: 1) in the rear or
side yard behind a sight obscuring fence, wall, or screen that is not less than
six feet (6') in height, or 2) within a completely enclosed structure. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-18: BANK:  
There are no additional standards for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-19: BAR, BREW PUB, OR NIGHTCLUB:
   A.   The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding the
sale, manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   B.   The bar, brew pub, or nightclub shall not be located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of a church or school property.
   C.   For properties abutting a residential district, no outside activity or
event shall be allowed on the site, except as provided for in chapter 4,
article L, "Temporary Use", of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902,
10-2-2019)
8-5-3-20: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   The minimum property size for a bed and breakfast establishment shall
be one acre.
   B.   Any such facility shall be an owner occupied dwelling. For the purposes
of this subsection, an "owner" shall be defined as a person with a fifty
percent (50%) or greater interest in the bed and breakfast establishment.
   C.   If remodeling an existing structure, the exterior appearance of the
structure shall be that of a single-family dwelling. Fire escapes and other
features may be added to protect public safety; however, structural alterations
may not be made that would prevent future use of the structure as a single-
family dwelling.
   D.   No more than ten (10) occupants (including, but not limited to, the
owner, the owner's family, and any resident or nonresident employees) shall be
permitted to occupy the facility at any one time (daytime, evening, or night).
   E.   The maximum stay shall be two (2) weeks for any guest.
   F.   Breakfast shall be served on the premises only for guests and employees
of the facility. No other meals shall be provided on the premises. Guestrooms
may not be equipped with cooking facilities including, but not limited to,
stoves, hot plates, or microwave ovens.
   G.   Only business signs referring solely to a principal permitted use of
the bed and breakfast are permitted. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-
2001; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-21: BOARDING HOUSE:  
No more than ten (10) occupants (including any resident staff and family) shall
be permitted to occupy any such facility at one time. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-22: BREWERY OR DISTILLERY:  
The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding the sale,
manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-23: CAMPGROUND:
   A.   Access: The campground site shall have access from a principal or minor
arterial.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   The applicant shall indicate the specific location of each proposed
cabin, campsite, or recreational vehicle space on the master site plan.
      2.   A fifty foot (50') landscaped setback with protective screening or
fencing shall be required on property boundaries adjacent to a public right of
way. Those property boundaries abutting private property shall require a
landscape setback of fifty feet (50') with protective fencing.
      3.   A three hundred foot (300') separation shall be maintained between
any outdoor activity area (including campsites and recreation facilities) and
any residential district.
      4.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the campground shall
comply with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code.
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses including, but not limited to,
management headquarters, recreational structures, coin operated laundry
facilities, toilets, and showers may be allowed, subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   Such uses shall be restricted in their use to occupants of the
campground.
      2.   Such uses shall present no visible evidence of their commercial
character to attract customers other than occupants of the campground.
      3.   The structures enclosing such uses shall not be located closer than
one hundred feet (100') to any public street and shall not be directly
accessible from any public street, but shall be accessible only from a drive
within the campground.
   D.   Use Of Spaces; Maximum Stay: Spaces may be used by tents or temporary
shelter arrangements or devices (including recreational vehicles). The maximum
stay shall be two (2) weeks for any guest. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902,
10-2-2019)
8-5-3-24: CAR WASH:
   A.   All businesses providing self-service or drive-through car wash
facilities shall identify the stacking lane and wash location on the master
site plan.
   B.   If within the C1 district, a car wash facility shall be allowed only as
an accessory use to a gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales facility. The
car wash facility shall be limited in capacity to a single vehicle.
   C.   A one hundred foot (100') separation shall be maintained between any
car wash facility and any residential district.
   D.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the car wash shall comply
with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code.
   E.   Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside
the car wash facility entrance. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity
to prevent obstruction of the public right of way by patrons. Such stacking
lanes shall be separate from areas required for access and parking and depicted
on the master site plan showing the car capacity and adequate turning radius
for standard vehicles. The stacking lanes shall not be located within ten feet
(10') of any residential district. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-
2011; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-25: CEMETERY:
   A.   For the purposes of this subsection, the term "structures" shall
include, but not be limited to, mausolea, columbaria, and crypts. No structure,
exclusive of fences or walls, shall be located within one hundred feet (100')
from any existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or caretaker.
Structures shall conform to the height limitation and required yards for the
applicable base district.
   B.   Graves and monuments shall not be located within fifteen feet (15')
from any property line.
   C.   All cemeteries shall be platted according to the regulations of chapter
6 of this title.
   D.   If the cemetery is privately owned, the cemetery shall be established
as a perpetual care cemetery in accord with Idaho Code section 27-401.
   E.   If the cemetery use includes a mortuary, the mortuary is considered an
accessory use to the cemetery. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-26: CHILDREN'S TREATMENT FACILITY:
   A.   The applicant or owner shall secure and maintain a license from the
state of Idaho department of health and welfare family and children's services
division.
   B.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-27: CHURCH:  
Schools, child daycare services, meeting facilities for clubs and
organizations, and other similar uses not operated primarily for the purpose of
religious instruction, worship, government of the church, or the fellowship of
its congregation may be permitted to the extent the activity is otherwise
permitted in the district. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-28: CLINIC, MEDICAL (EXCLUDING ANIMAL OR VETERINARY):  
There are no additional standards for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-29: CLUB OR LODGE OR SOCIAL HALL:
   A.   All structures shall meet the minimum required setbacks for the
applicable base district, or a minimum setback of thirty five feet (35') from
any public street and twenty five feet (25') from any other property line,
whichever is greater.
   B.   Any food service shall be approved by the central district health
department. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 902, 10-
2-2019)
8-5-3-30: COMPOSTING FACILITY, COMMERCIAL:
   A.   The use shall comply with all applicable regulations pertaining to
designation, licensing, and maintenance of commercial composting facilities
including, but not limited to, federal, state, and local statutes, rules, and/
or ordinances 1 .
   B.   Grass composting shall only be allowed when the applicant can
demonstrate that the use will not cause undue adverse impacts on surrounding
properties.
   C.   All structures, outdoor storage areas, or any areas where compost is
stored shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any
residential district and shall meet the standards of section
8-5-3-78, "Outdoor Storage", of this chapter.
   D.   For the purposes of this subsection, compost material shall not be
considered a fertilizer, and shall not be restricted by section
8-4A-16, "Outdoor Storage Of Chemicals And Fertilizers", of this title.
   E.   The site for the composting facility shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
1    See also title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
8-5-3-31: CONTRACTOR'S YARD OR SHOP:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   If the property is located in a residential or rural base district,
all outdoor storage areas shall be located a minimum of fifty feet (50') from
any property line abutting other property and depicted on the master site plan.
This buffer from the property line shall have a vegetative ground cover and
shall be regularly maintained to prevent weed growth. All structures and
outdoor storage areas shall be depicted on the master site plan.
      2.   If the property is located in a residential or rural base district,
all structures shall be located a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any property
line abutting other property and depicted on the master site plan; office and
vehicle parking areas for vehicles that fall within the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration classification of passenger cars, sport utility
vehicles, pickup trucks, and vans may utilize the setbacks of the underlying
zone.
      3.   If the property is located in a residential or rural base district
the minimum property size for a contractor's yard shall be five (5) acres.
      4.   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened year round and comply with
section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
      5.   The site shall not be used as a "junkyard" or "automobile wrecking
yard" as herein defined.
      6.   For the purposes of this title, a contractor's yard or shop is not a
home occupation.
      7.   The property shall have approved access from an improved public
roadway for the use.
      8.   Maintenance of vehicles or machinery shall be incidental to the
contractor's yard or shop and the incidental use shall only include minor
repair.
      9.   Accessory office space shall comply with section
8-5-3-75 of this chapter and shall be identified on the master site plan.
      10.   Parking area improvements shall comply with the standards found in
chapter 4, article G of this title and shall be delineated on the master site
plan or parking plan. No on street parking of vehicles or equipment associated
with the use is allowed.
      11.   Use of the property shall comply with title 5, chapter 13, "Noise",
of this code.
      12.   Hours of operation shall be limited between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. unless otherwise approved or
restricted with a conditional use permit.
      13.   No retail sales associated with a contractor's yard or shop may
occur on the property unless retail sales are approved with a different use
that allows retail sales.
      14.   A building permit may be required for the change in use or
occupancy of any existing structure, or portion thereof, used in association
with a contractor's yard or shop.
      15.   For the duration of the approval, the use shall be subject to
zoning inspection upon advanced notice and request by the Ada County
development services department. If a permit holder refuses to allow inspection
of the premises by the development service department, the approved zoning
certificate or conditional use permit may be revoked.
   B.   Additional Standards: Additional standards for a contractor's yard or
shop permitted as a conditional use:
      1.   Application Requirements: The application materials shall include
the following documentation:
         a.   The proximity of existing dwellings;
         b.   The number of employees at the largest shift;
         c.   The hours and days of operation;
         d.   The number and type of vehicles that will be stored/used on the
site;
         e.   Dust;
         f.   Noise;
         g.   Outdoor loading;
         h.   Traffic;
         i.   Landscaping and screening;
         j.   Other.
      2.   The duration of a conditional use permit for a contractor's yard or
shop shall be limited within the RR, RP, RSW, and RUT Districts. The
conditional use permit shall expire five (5) years following the approval date,
or upon annexation of the subject property into a city, whichever occurs first.
Upon expiration of the conditional use permit, all equipment and materials
stored outdoors shall be removed within thirty (30) days from the subject
property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 743, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019; amd. Ord. 934, 12-21-2021)
8-5-3-32: CREMATORY:
   A.   The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval from the state of
Idaho division of environmental quality.
   B.   A crematory, whether lying within or without the limits of a cemetery,
shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any property line. The
applicant shall provide written documentation that the crematory structures and
equipment shall not create a public nuisance by reason of smoke or odor
extending beyond or outside of the property lines of the subject premises.
   C.   The site for the crematory shall be maintained in an orderly manner so
as not to create a public nuisance. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019)
8-5-3-33: DANGEROUS OR PROTECTED ANIMALS:
   A.   Regulations: The owner or caretaker of dangerous or protected animals
shall comply with all state and/or federal regulations regarding the
maintaining, raising, harboring, possession, training, or boarding of such
animals.
   B.   Endangered Or Protected Species Research Facility: Facilities for, as
herein defined, are subject to the following standards and processes:
      1.   Standards: Standards applicable to an "endangered or protected
species research facility" as defined herein shall include:
         a.   The facility, which may include more than one structure, must be
located within a rural base district on at least forty (40) contiguous acres of
land.
         b.   The applicant shall apply for a conditional use permit for
approval of a conceptual development plan. The decision making body shall
determine the approval period for the conceptual development. The maximum
allowable time period shall not exceed twenty (20) years.
         c.   Allowable ancillary uses consistent with the research and
educational mission of the endangered or protected species research facility,
can be established at the time of conditional use permit approval of a
conceptual development plan. These uses may include, but not be limited to:
museums, visitor centers, incidental retail, libraries, classrooms, offices,
meeting spaces, staff residences, storage buildings and veterinary and
laboratory facilities. Additional ancillary uses identified at time of
conceptual development plan application may require separate conditional use
approval at the time of development.
         d.   Unless specifically exempted or amended as part of an approved
conditional use permit, all structures and uses, with the exception of
incidental storage or utility structures having a building footprint of more
than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, shall be set back two
hundred feet (200') from any property line abutting a residential use. In no
case shall setbacks be reduced below the minimum standards for the base zoning
district, unless a variance is approved pursuant to section
8-7-4 of this title. Incidental storage or utility structures having a building
footprint of less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet shall
comply with standard setbacks for the base zoning district.
         e.   The facility's water system for potable water and fire
suppression shall be provided by a utility regulated by the Idaho public
utilities commission.
      2.   Conceptual Development Plan Approval: At the time of conditional use
application for a conceptual development plan, the following items are required
in addition to the items outlined on the conditional use checklist:
         a.   The conditional use application fee for conceptual plan review
shall be based on the area of total proposed disturbed acreage.
         b.   A conceptual development plan, in lieu of the master site plan,
that shows:
            (1)   Existing structures, uses, parking layout and traffic
circulation;
            (2)   Calculations of existing and required parking for each
existing structure and/or use;
            (3)   The general location of proposed new structures and/or uses
and their required parking facilities in relation to existing or proposed
traffic circulation patterns;
            (4)   Any existing easements or rights of way within one hundred
feet (100') of the conceptual area of development;
            (5)   The maximum requested level of residential development;
            (6)   The location and capacities of firefighting resources on
site; and
            (7)   The location of wells, septic systems, and/or reserve septic
systems, if applicable.
         c.   A detailed letter describing the nature of the request. The
narrative should include:
            (1)   Proposed use(s);
            (2)   List of proposed allowed ancillary use(s);
            (3)   List of proposed ancillary use(s) allowed by conditional use;
and
            (4)   A written statement describing the off street parking and
loading plan.
   C.   Conceptual Development Plan Terms Of Approval: The terms of approval
for the conditional use permit for the conceptual development plan shall
include the following:
      1.   A maximum time frame (of up to 20 years, as established by the
decision making body) during which time the conceptual development plan shall
be valid. A zoning certificate is not required to be issued within one year, as
required per subsection
8-5B-3E of this chapter; however, a zoning certificate is required with every
building permit issued under the conceptual development plan.
      2.   A listing of allowed ancillary use(s) approved as part of the
permit.
      3.   A listing of ancillary use(s) allowed by an additional conditional
use permit prior to development of the specific use(s).
      4.   Written statement regarding the level of modifications and/or
expansions to the approved plan to be allowed without additional conditional
use approval if it is determined that subsections
8-5B-3G and/or H of this chapter are not applicable.
      5.   The hours and days of operation for areas open to the general
public.
      6.   The approved parking standards per subsection
8-4G-5D of this title, if applicable.
      7.   Determination on the waiving or modification of landscaping
standards by the commission, as allowed under subsection
8-4F-2B of this title.
      8.   Residences shall only be for use of employees of the facility,
except as specifically allowed under the terms of approval.
   D.   Allowed Ancillary Uses: At the time of building permit and/or zoning
certification for allowed ancillary use(s), the owner and/or applicant shall:
      1.   Submit a master application for an addendum and the endangered or
protected species ancillary use checklist.
      2.   Payment of the completeness review application fee.
      3.   Provide an updated table of existing and required parking for the
site.
      4.   Central district health department approval of any proposed
facilities under their jurisdiction.
      5.   Provide a written statement from the applicant that a valid U.S.
fish and wildlife service permit for an endangered or protected species
research facility remains in effect.
      6.   Provide a written statement explaining how the ancillary use
conforms to the approved conceptual development plan.
   E.   Ancillary Uses Requiring A Conditional Use: At the time of application
for ancillary uses requiring a conditional use, the following items are
required in addition to the items required on the conditional use checklist:
      1.   In lieu of a master site plan, a detailed site plan of the affected
area(s) showing:
         a.   Existing uses, buildings and parking facilities;
         b.   Proposed uses, buildings and parking facilities;
         c.   Existing easements or rights of way within one hundred feet
(100') of the conceptual area of development;
         d.   The maximum square footage requested for the ancillary use(s);
         e.   Location of wells and septic system.
      2.   The applicant shall also provide in writing:
         a.   Approval of central district health, if applicable;
         b.   A statement regarding the off street parking and loading plan and
conformance to the approved conceptual development plan; and
         c.   Provide a statement explaining how the use conforms to the
approved conceptual development plan.
      3.   Payment of the conditional use application fee based on the square
footage of the proposed structure(s). (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 726, 4-8-
2009; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-34: DAYCARES; DAYCARE CENTER, FAMILY DAYCARE HOME, AND GROUP DAYCARE
FACILITY:
   A.   Standards For Daycare Centers:
      1.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of net
floor area indoors per client. This space shall be measured wall to wall in
rooms that are regularly used by the clients, exclusive of halls, bathrooms,
and kitchen.
      2.   On site vehicle parking and pick up and turnaround areas shall be
provided to ensure safe discharge and pick up of clients.
      3.   The decision making body shall specify the maximum number of
allowable clients as a condition of approval, based on the requirements of this
title and Idaho Code.
      4.   The decision making body shall consider the uses of the surrounding
properties in the determination of the compatibility of the proposed daycare
center with such uses. The decision making body may require additional
conditions as are necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
of the clients.
      5.   No portion of the facilities used by clients may be within three
hundred feet (300') of explosive or hazardous material storage including, but
not limited to, the following uses: brewery or distillery, explosive
manufacturing or storage, flammable substance storage, gasoline, diesel, or
alternative fuel sales facility, manufacture or processing of hazardous
chemicals or gases, and winery.
      6.   The daycare center operator shall secure and maintain a daycare
center license from the state of Idaho department of health and welfare.
      7.   The daycare center operator shall provide a minimum outdoor play
area of one hundred (100) square feet per child. The minimum play area
requirement may be waived if: a) there is greater or equal area of parks that
abut the facility that can be used by the children, or b) the program design is
such that the number of children using the play area at any one time conforms
to the one hundred (100) square foot per child criteria.
      8.   All outdoor play areas shall be completely enclosed by a minimum of
six foot (6') barriers to secure against exit/entry by small children and to
screen abutting properties. The fencing material shall meet the swimming pool
barrier requirements of the Ada County building code as set forth in title 7,
chapter 2 of this code.
      9.   Outdoor play equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located
in any required yard.
      10.   The proposed use shall be located and designed to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the children.
      11.   Minimum staff required is one per six (6) children under eighteen
(18) months; one per twelve (12) children eighteen (18) months to five (5)
years; and one per eighteen (18) children aged five (5) years or older.
      12.   A fire inspection and a health inspection are required by Idaho
Code sections 39-1104, 39-1109 and 39-1110. The daycare operator shall apply to
the Idaho department of health and welfare for the inspections.
      13.   A criminal history check is required by Idaho Code section 39-1105.
The daycare operator shall apply for the criminal history check at the Idaho
department of health and welfare.
      14.   Immunizations and staff training are required by Idaho Code
sections 39-1118 and 39-1119.
      15.   A commercial building permit is required for the entire structure
(s) used for the daycare center.
      16.   Hours of operation are limited to six thirty (6:30) A.M. to seven
(7:00) P.M. or as specified in the conditional use permit.
   B.   Standards For Family Daycare Homes:
      1.   If any of the children cared for at the family daycare home are
younger than seven (7) years of age, a criminal history check of staff shall be
obtained from the Idaho department of health and welfare.
      2.   Hours of operation are limited to six-thirty (6:30) A.M. to seven
(7:00) P.M.
      3.   If outdoor lighting is to be used, it shall comply with chapter 4,
article H of this title as is required for a master site plan.
   C.   Standards For Group Daycare Facilities:
      1.   There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of net
floor area indoors per client. This space shall be measured wall to wall in
rooms that are regularly used by the clients, exclusive of halls, bathrooms and
kitchen.
      2.   No overnight parking shall be allowed. On site parking for the group
daycare facility shall not use the parking space(s) required for the dwelling
unit or other approved uses located on the site.
      3.   The applicant shall provide a minimum outdoor play area of one
hundred (100) square feet per child. The director may waive the minimum play
area requirement if there is a park that abuts the property that can be used by
the children.
      4.   All outdoor areas shall be completely enclosed by a minimum of six
foot (6') barriers to secure against exit or entry by small children and to
screen abutting properties. The fencing material shall meet the swimming pool
barrier requirements of the Ada County building code as set forth in title 7,
chapter 2 of this code.
      5.   Outdoor play equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located
in any required yard.
      6.   Minimum staff required is one staff person per six (6) children
younger than eighteen (18) months and one staff person per twelve (12) children
eighteen (18) months old or older.
      7.   A fire inspection is required. The applicant shall apply to the
local fire district, or, if not located within a fire district, to the Idaho
fire marshal.
      8.   If any of the children cared for at the group daycare facility are
younger than seven (7) years of age, a criminal history check of staff is
required from the Idaho department of health and welfare, per Idaho Code
section 39-1114.
      9.   Hours of operation are limited to six-thirty (6:30) A.M. to seven
(7:00) P.M.
      10.   If outdoor lighting is to be used, it shall comply with chapter 4,
article H of this title as is required for a master site plan. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-
2011; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-35: DRIVE-UP WINDOW SERVICE:
   A.   All businesses providing drive-up window service shall identify the
stacking lane, menu and speaker location (if applicable), and window location
on the master site plan.
   B.   Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of
the public right of way by patrons. The stacking lane shall be a separate lane
from the circulation lanes needed for access and parking and depicted on the
master site plan showing the car capacity and adequate turning radius for
standard vehicles. The stacking lane shall not be located within ten feet (10')
of any residential district.
   C.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the drive-up window service
shall comply with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-36: DRUG AND ALCOHOL TREATMENT FACILITY:
The owner of the facility shall secure and maintain a license from the state of
Idaho department of health and welfare mental health and substance abuse
division. In areas that are zoned rural preservation (RP) or rural residential
(RR), the facility shall only be permitted if it lies within an area of city
impact. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 674, 9-12-2007; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019)
8-5-3-37: DUPLEX, TOWNHOUSE OR SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING:  
There are no additional standards for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-38: DWELLING, ADDITIONAL FARM:
   A.   The additional farm dwelling shall be located on a "farm" as herein
defined.
   B.   No more than one permanent additional dwelling (including, but not
limited to, caretaker dwelling, additional farm dwelling, or secondary
dwelling) shall be permitted on a property.
   C.   The additional farm dwelling shall be occupied by households where at
least one individual is an “employee” (as herein defined) on the farm.
   D.   The location of the additional farm dwelling shall be: 1) on an
existing or previously abandoned farmstead, or 2) not on prime agricultural
land as herein defined. If such alternatives are not available, the farthest
extent of the additional farm dwelling shall be located within one hundred feet
(100') of the existing farm dwelling. The additional farm dwelling shall not
conflict with existing or proposed wastewater treatment systems.
   E.   The applicant shall demonstrate the need for the additional farm
dwelling based on characteristics of the farm and/or farm operation. Such
characteristics shall include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The size of the entire farm including all other property used for
such farm operation within the immediate area.
      2.   The types of farm crops and acreage for each type.
      3.   The operational requirements for the particular farm activity.
      4.   The number of other permanent or temporary dwellings on the farm.
      5.   The numbers of owners/employees/workers on the farm (including
permanent and seasonal). (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-39: DWELLING, CARETAKER FOR AN APPROVED USE:
   A.   The caretaker dwelling is needed to house the owner or the owner's
employee of an approved use.
   B.   The caretaker dwelling shall be occupied by households where at least
one individual is an "employee" (as herein defined).
   C.   Need for the caretaker dwelling shall be justified for reasons of
upkeep on the property, supervision of operations, and/or guarding materials
stored on site.
   D.   No more than one permanent additional dwelling (including, but not
limited to, principally permitted dwelling, caretaker dwelling, additional farm
dwelling, or secondary dwelling) shall be permitted on a property. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-40: DWELLING, SECONDARY ATTACHED OR DETACHED:
   A.   Applicability. This section applies to any secondary attached or
detached dwelling and details the standards required to ensure these dwelling
types remain incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted dwelling.
   B.   General Standards.
      1.   Principal Dwelling: A principal permitted dwelling with a valid
zoning certificate and certificate of occupancy, or a principal permitted
dwelling under construction with a valid building permit, must be present on
the subject property.
      2.   Number Allowed: No more than one permanent additional dwelling
including, but not limited to, an additional farm dwelling, caretaker dwelling,
or a secondary dwelling shall be permitted on a property. Conversion of an
existing attached garage or basement of the principal permitted dwelling counts
as the allowed one permanent additional dwelling.
      3.   Occupancy: Either the principal dwelling or the secondary dwelling
must be continuously occupied by at least one (1) person having ownership
interest in the subject property.
      4.   Property Size: The subject property shall have a minimum property
size of at least six thousand (6,000) square feet.
      5.   Dimensional Standards. All secondary dwellings shall meet the
dimensional standards for the applicable zoning district.
   C.   Design Standards.
      1.   Size. A secondary dwelling may be between three hundred fifty (350)
square feet up to a maximum of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet or
sixty percent (60%) of the square footage of above-ground living space of the
principal dwelling, whichever is less. Garage and/or shop space included in an
accessory structure containing a secondary dwelling shall not count against the
allowed square footage of the secondary dwelling.
         a.   Sixty percent (60%) Calculation: The square footage of covered
outdoor space, basements or attached/detached garages associated with the
principal dwelling must be excluded from the sixty percent (60%) calculation.
      2.   Bedrooms: Secondary dwellings are limited to a maximum of three (3)
bedrooms. A bedroom includes enclosed conditioned spaces over seventy (70)
square feet with a privacy door and separate means of egress.
      3.   Parking. Off street parking shall be provided as per section
8-4G-6 of this title in addition to the required off street parking for the
principal dwelling.
      4.   Appearance. The secondary dwelling should be complementary with the
principal permitted dwelling in that it:
         a.   Has a similar roof pitch; and
         b.   Has a compatible color scheme.
      5.   Facilities. The secondary dwelling shall have separate kitchen and
bathroom facilities from the principal permitted dwelling.
      6.   Utilities: The secondary dwelling shall be provided with utilities
which may be metered separately - including gas, electric, communications,
water and sewer all subject to the approval of applicable utility companies and
public agencies.
      7.   Entry: Secondary dwellings shall be provided with a primary point of
ingress and egress separate from the principal dwelling.
      8.   Emergency Access: Secondary dwellings shall be provided with a
separate address, a unique identifier, or other means to enable emergency
service providers to identify and distinguish the dwelling unit from the
principal dwelling. Adequate physical access for emergency services to both the
principal and secondary dwellings shall be provided.
      9.   Foundation: Secondary dwellings shall be placed on a foundation.
   D.   Additional Standards for Detached Secondary Dwelling Units.
      1.   Location: A secondary dwelling shall not be located in the front
yard unless the principal dwelling, and its address indicator can remain
unobscured, and one or more of the following can be demonstrated:
         a.   The depth of the lot or parcel is two hundred fifty feet (250')
or less; or
         b.   The configuration of the property and location of the principal
dwelling would preclude the location of the secondary dwelling to meet the
required back yard and/or side yard setbacks.
      2.   Outdoor Space. A minimum of 50 square feet of outdoor space like a
porch, patio, or balcony shall be provided for the exclusive use of the
residents of the dwelling. This square footage shall not count against the
allowed square footage of the secondary dwelling.
   E.   Conversion of an existing structure.
      1.   An existing garage, basement or a detached accessory structure may
be converted into a secondary dwelling, provided that the conversion or
structure meets the standards of this section, except for the requirements of
section
8-5-3-40.C.4.
      2.   If such conversion requires exterior work and/or an addition to the
existing garage, basement, or detached accessory structure such exterior work
and/or addition should be complementary to the existing building construction.
      3.   Such conversion shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
Ada County building code, as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code, any
applicable plumbing or electrical code requirements, and any applicable off-
street parking requirements for both the principal and secondary dwellings.
   F.   Deed Restriction. A recorded deed restriction is required ensuring
compliance with the following requirements and shall be submitted prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy or final building permit inspection.
      1.   Document Requirements: The deed restriction or covenant shall
address the following topics:
         a.   The secondary dwelling shall not be sold or owned separately from
the principal dwelling.
         b.   The secondary dwelling may be utilized as habitable space, only
so long as either the principal dwelling or the secondary dwelling is occupied
by at least one individual with ownership interest in the property.
         c.   In the event that a minimum of one (1) person having ownership
interest in the property ceases to occupy a dwelling on the property, the
secondary dwelling shall automatically become non-habitable space, shall not be
used as a dwelling and shall not be rented or leased for any purpose.
         d.   The above restrictions shall be binding upon any successor in
ownership of the property as long as the secondary dwelling exists on the
property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019; Ord. 970, 3-13-2024)
8-5-3-41: DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED:
Only one single-family detached dwelling shall be allowed per property. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-42: EXPLOSIVE MANUFACTURING OR STORAGE:
The following standards apply to explosive manufacturing or storage as a
nonaccessory use. This section shall not apply to gasoline fueling stations or
research and development facilities.
   A.   The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from
any residential district or approved hospital use.
   B.   The facility shall be enclosed by an eight foot (8') high security
fence or wall. Entrance and exit shall be through a gate that shall be locked
during nonbusiness hours. See also section
8-5-3-44, "Fence; Barbed Wire, Electric Wire Or Other", of this chapter.
   C.   The application materials shall include written documentation from the
appropriate fire authority approving the proposed location and plan
specifications of the facilities.
   D.   The application materials shall include maps and engineering drawings
showing proposed drainage, proposed sewer system design, the depth of the water
table, soil composition, all existing surface water, and all existing uses
within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the property. The applicant shall also furnish
evidence that the dangerous characteristics of the particular process or
activity in question have been or shall be eliminated or minimized sufficiently
so as not to create a public nuisance or be detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
   E.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-43: FARM, GARDEN, LUMBER, OR BUILDING SUPPLY STORE:
Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-44: FENCE; BARBED WIRE, ELECTRIC WIRE OR OTHER:
   A.   No sight-obscuring fence, hedge, wall, latticework, or screen shall
violate the "clear vision triangle", as defined herein, requirements at a
street intersection.
   B.   Barbed wire and electric wire fencing shall only be allowed on
properties that meet one or more of the following standards:
      1.   The property is a "farm", as herein defined;
      2.   The property is in the RP, RR, or RUT base districts;
      3.   The property has a livestock confinement facility; or
      4.   The use of barbed wire and/or electric wire fencing was allowed as
part of an approved use where the applicant proposed security fencing.
   C.   On properties one (1) acre in size or less and located within an area
of city impact, no fence, wall, latticework, or screen shall be erected over
three feet (3') in height within the required front yard plane.
   D.   No fence, wall, latticework, or screen on the perimeter boundary or
within any required setback area shall exceed a height of six feet (6') above
grade, unless approved by a variance by the board or as part of an approved
use. Provided that a variance for fences, walls, latticework, or screens for a
public facility shall not be required as long as the fence, wall, latticework,
or screen does not exceed a height of twelve feet (12') above grade. Any fence,
wall, latticework, or screen over six feet (6') in height shall also require a
building permit with construction drawings prepared by a qualified and licensed
engineer or architect.
   E.   Where any sight-obscuring fence, or wall, latticework, or screen is
required by this title to protect adjacent properties, said fence, wall,
latticework, or screen shall be kept free from advertising and graffiti and
maintained in good repair.
   F.   Security fencing that is not associated with an agricultural use,
public facility, or a livestock confinement facility shall only be used as the
top section of the fencing and shall be a minimum of six feet (6') above grade.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-45: FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCE STORAGE:
The following standards apply to flammable substance storage as a nonaccessory
use. This section shall not apply to gasoline fueling stations or research and
development facilities.
   A.   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of
three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district or approved
hospital use.
   B.   The facility shall be enclosed by an eight foot (8') high security
fence or wall. Entrance and exit shall be through a gate that shall be locked
during nonbusiness hours. See also section
8-5-3-44 (fence; barbed wire, electric wire, or other) of this chapter.
   C.   The application materials shall include written documentation from the
appropriate fire authority approving the proposed location and plan
specifications of the facilities.
   D.   The application materials shall include maps and engineering drawings
showing proposed drainage, proposed sewer system design, the depth of the water
table, soil composition, all existing surface water, and all existing uses
within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the property. The applicant shall also furnish
evidence that the dangerous characteristics of the particular process or
activity in question have been or shall be eliminated or minimized sufficiently
so as not to create a public nuisance or be detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
   E.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-46: FOSTER HOME, GROUP:
   A.   Off-street parking shall be provided as per section
8-4G-6 of this title, in addition to the required off-street parking for the
dwelling.
   B.   If the proposed group foster home results in more than ten (10) persons
occupying a dwelling at any one time, the applicant or owner shall concurrently
apply for a change of occupancy as required by the Ada County building code as
set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
   C.   The applicant shall provide a minimum outdoor play area of one hundred
(100) square feet per child. The director may waive the minimum play area
requirement if there is a park that abuts the property that can be used by the
children.
   D.   All outdoor play areas shall be completely enclosed by minimum six foot
(6') barriers to secure against exit/entry by small children and to screen
abutting properties. The fencing material shall meet the swimming pool barrier
requirements of the Ada County building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2
of this code.
   E.   The proposed use shall be properly located and designed to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the children.
   F.   Outdoor play equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located in
a front yard or within any required yard.
   G.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-47: FOUNDRY:
All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of three
hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a minimum
of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district or approved
hospital use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-48: FREIGHT OR TRUCK TERMINAL:
   A.   Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of
vehicles (including, but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps,
garages for minor repair) may be allowed.
   B.   The use shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from
any residential district and a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any
hospital.
   C.   All outdoor storage of material shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance. Outdoor storage areas shall
comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
   D.   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval
from Idaho division of environmental quality, Idaho department of water
resources, and the appropriate fire authority. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-49: FUEL CELL:
The use shall not be a "power facility" as defined herein. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-50: GASOLINE, DIESEL OR ALTERNATIVE FUEL SALES FACILITY:
   A.   When allowed as an accessory use, gasoline, diesel or alternative fuel
sales facilities shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
subject property.
   B.   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval
from Idaho division of environmental quality, Idaho department of water
resources and the appropriate fire authority.
   C.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title.
   D.   Structures and pump station canopies on corner properties shall observe
a minimum setback of thirty five feet (35') from any public street. There shall
be a minimum setback of twenty five feet (25') from any residential district.
   E.   The total height of any overhead canopy or weather protection device
shall not exceed twenty feet (20').
   F.   Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside
the fueling areas. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent
obstruction of the public right of way by patrons. Such stacking lanes shall be
separate from areas required for access and parking. The stacking lanes shall
not be located within ten feet (10') of any residential district.
   G.   All trash, waste materials, and obsolete automobile parts shall be
stored within a separate enclosure behind the principal structure of the
gasoline, diesel or alternative fuel sales facility. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd.
Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-51: GOLF COURSE AND COUNTRY CLUB:
   A.   To be eligible for an accessory country club and/or sale of alcoholic
beverages, the golf course shall be a bona fide golf course as defined by Idaho
Code section 23-903.
   B.   Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment shall be allowed.
   C.   The golf driving range shall be designed to protect abutting property
and roadways from golf balls. See section
8-5-3-9 of this chapter for nonaccessory driving ranges.
   D.   All other accessory structures to the golf course shall not be located
within one hundred feet (100') of an abutting property within a residential
district. No outdoor recreation area associated with the country club shall be
located within fifty feet (50') of any property line. If an outdoor swimming
pool is proposed on site, the pool shall be enclosed with a six foot (6')
barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County building code as set
forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
   E.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the golf course or country
club shall comply with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code.
   F.   For reasons of public health, safety and welfare, an accessory country
club or clubhouse shall only be allowed as long as the subject property is
within a fire district.
   G.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 620, 5-24-2006; amd.
Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-52: GRAIN ELEVATOR:
The applicant shall provide written documentation that the design and location
of the grain elevator have been approved by the appropriate fire authority.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-53: HEAVY EQUIPMENT SALES OR SERVICE:
   A.   All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and
lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   B.   Outdoor storage of accessories, replacement parts, or discarded parts
shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
   C.   Inoperable or dismantled equipment shall be stored behind a sight
obscuring fence, wall or screen or within an enclosed structure, and shall not
be visible from any street or private road.  (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-54: HOME OCCUPATION:
   A.   Standards For All Home Occupations:
      1.   The home occupation shall not cause the property to differ from its
rural or residential character in appearance, or in the emission of noise,
dust, fumes, odors, vibrations, or electrical interference.
      2.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) or one thousand feet (1,000')
(whichever is less) of the total floor area of the principal permitted dwelling
shall be devoted to the home occupation or for storing goods or vehicles
associated with the home occupation. Total floor area shall include both
habitable and noninhabitable space.
      3.   The structure in which the home occupation is located must have a
valid building permit and/or zoning approval. The home occupation and
associated storage shall not occupy any space required for off street parking
for the principal permitted dwelling.
      4.   No outdoor storage or outdoor loading shall be allowed, except that
one work trailer, work vehicle or commercial vehicle may park on the property.
      5.   No home occupation shall discharge any hazardous material into any
sewer, drainageway or the ground.
      6.   The following occupations are prohibited as home occupations:
service, repair or painting of any vehicle; commercial kennel; adult
entertainment; commercial composting; sale, repackaging or use of hazardous
materials; or use not consistent with the applicable base district purpose
statement.
      7.   Contractor's yard or shop is not a home occupation. Contractor's
yard or shop is regulated by specific use standards in this chapter.
      8.   Daycare is not a home occupation. Daycare is regulated by specific
use standards found in this chapter.
      9.   One home sign is allowed, and shall comply with chapter 4, article I
of this title. Off premises or off site signage must be separately approved in
accordance with chapter 4, article I of this title.
      10.   No processing of soil or rock shall be allowed.
      11.   Storage or use of hazardous materials, odor causing materials, or
other materials that may cause a nuisance or health or safety problems is
prohibited.
      12.   For the duration of an approved zoning certificate or accessory use
permit, the home occupation shall be subject to zoning inspection upon advanced
notice and request by the Ada County development services department. If a
permit holder refuses to allow inspection of the premises by the department,
the approved zoning certificate or accessory use permit may be revoked.
      13.   Home occupations shall comply with all applicable state and federal
regulations.
      14.   In addition to the requirements set forth on the applicable
application forms of the department, home occupation applications shall include
the following:
         a.   A site plan drawn to scale, depicting the total square footage
and location of all existing and proposed structures located within the
property boundaries of the subject property.
         b.   A graphical depiction, such as a floor plan, showing the
separation of home occupation space from residential and/or accessory use
space.
         c.   A detailed letter indicating:
            (1)   The square footage of the proposed area of the home
occupation;
            (2)   The number of employees who do not live on site;
            (3)   If retail sales are planned;
            (4)   The hours and days of operation;
            (5)   If group instruction is planned, the number of students at
any one time;
            (6)   The number of off street parking spaces;
            (7)   The number of commercial vehicles;
            (8)   The frequency of pick ups, deliveries and visits by patrons;
and
            (9)   Any other information relative to the description of the
proposed home occupation.
   B.   Standards For Small Home Occupations:
      1.   A zoning certificate is required. The resident owner of the home
occupation shall continuously comply with the restrictions in this section and
the specific use standards found in this chapter.
      2.   A building permit may be required for the change in use or occupancy
of any portion of the principal permitted dwelling, greenhouse, garage, or
accessory structure used for the home occupation.
      3.   The home occupation shall be conducted solely by the residents of
the principal permitted dwelling. No employees are allowed.
      4.   No client, customer, and/or student visits shall be allowed.
      5.   The property shall have no more vehicle trips per day than average
for a residence.
      6.   The home occupation shall not receive more than two (2) pick ups or
deliveries per day.
   C.   Standards For Large Home Occupations:
      1.   Administrative approval is required. The owner of the home
occupation shall continuously comply with the restrictions in this section and
the specific use standards found in this chapter.
      2.   A building permit may be required for the change in use or occupancy
of any portion of the principal permitted dwelling, greenhouse, garage, or
accessory structure used for the home occupation.
      3.   The home occupation shall be conducted by the inhabitants of the
principal permitted dwelling, and no more than one nonresident employee shall
be permitted to work on site.
      4.   All visits by the nonresident employee, clients and customers, and
deliveries, shall occur between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, and between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (26:00) P.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
      5.   Group instruction shall be limited to no more than five (5) students
at one time with a maximum of two (2) classes per day.
      6.   The use of an outdoor swimming pool for swimming instruction shall
be provided with a barrier which meets the requirements of the Ada County
building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
      7.   One paved, off street parking space shall be provided for the
nonresident employee, plus up to three (3) parking spaces for clients, if
applicable, and shall be improved as per section
8-4G-6 of this title, in addition to the required off street parking for the
dwelling. No overnight parking of client or employee vehicles shall be allowed
on site. On site parking may be reduced by the number of off street parking
spaces in the driveway and by on street parallel parking spaces in front of the
single-family detached dwelling, if applicable.
      8.   The property shall have no more than twenty (20) additional
vehicular trips per day of home occupation traffic.
      9.   Large home occupations, involving on site visits by clients,
customers, and/or students shall not be allowed on private roads unless one of
the following can be demonstrated:
         a.   The private road does not provide access or frontage to any other
property; or
         b.   An existing or updated recorded maintenance/easement agreement
addresses and permits nonresidential use of the private road. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 692, 4-23-2008; amd. Ord. 731, 7-29-
2009; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-55: HOSPITAL:
   A.   The use shall have frontage on an arterial street.
   B.   Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops, food
or beverage service, and personal service shops, may be allowed if designed to
serve patrons of the hospital and their visitors only.
   C.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title.
   D.   No hospital shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
following uses: explosive manufacturing or storage, livestock confinement
facility with three hundred one (301) or more animal units, flammable substance
storage, foundry, freight and truck terminal, manufacture or processing of
hazardous chemicals, centralized power facility, processing plant for
agricultural and dairy products, slaughterhouse, soil or water remediation, or
tannery. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019)
8-5-3-56: HOTEL OR MOTEL:
   A.   No structure or driveway shall be located within one hundred feet
(100') of a property line abutting a residential district.
   B.   Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, restaurants,
retail shops, food or beverage service, and personal service shops, may be
allowed if such facilities are completely within the hotel or motel structure.
A bar or nightclub shall require separate or concurrent approval subject to the
regulations of this title.
   C.   No outdoor recreation area associated with the hotel or motel shall be
within one hundred feet (100') of a residential district. If an outdoor
swimming pool is proposed on site, the pool shall be enclosed with a six foot
(6') barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County building code as set
forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.  (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902,
10-2-2019)
8-5-3-57: JUNKYARD OR AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD:
   A.   Screening:
      1.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. The fence or wall and screening materials shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') in height.
      2.   No portion of the junkyard or automobile wrecking yard outdoor
storage areas and/or outdoor activity areas may be visible from any "highway",
"interstate", "principal arterial", or "minor arterial" as herein defined.
      3.   All materials or parts shall be stored and located within the fenced
or walled area. No vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed the
height of the fence or wall.
   B.   Site Related Standards:
      1.   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum
of three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district.
      2.   The master site plan shall designate an area for processing vehicles
as they are brought to the site. The processing area shall be an impermeable
surface that has a means to collect and properly dispose of oils and fluids in
the vehicles.
      3.   The applicant shall obtain all necessary permits for the storage of
materials on the site, including, but not limited to, oil, hazardous waste, and
tires.
      4.   No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a junkyard or
automobile wrecking yard, any portion of which is within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the nearest edge of the right of way and visible from any
"highway", "interstate", "principal arterial", or "minor arterial" as herein
defined. See Idaho Code section 40-313.
      5.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title.
      6.   The applicant shall submit review comments from the Boise regional
office of the Idaho division of environmental quality with the conditional use
permit application. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-58: KENNEL, COMMERCIAL:
   A.   The owner and/or operator shall have an obligation to comply with all
county and state regulations relative to the operation of the commercial
kennel.
   B.   The owner and/or operator shall maintain sanitary practices so as not
to create a public nuisance and to reduce noise and odor.
   C.   If applicable, the facility shall meet the specific use standards for
animal boarding with outside runs in section
8-5-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-59: KENNEL, HOBBY:
   A.   A maximum of ten (10) dogs shall be allowed as a hobby kennel. For the
purposes of this section, a litter of puppies together with the mother, shall
count as one dog until the litter reaches six (6) months of age. Each puppy
over six (6) months of age shall be counted as one dog.
   B.   The owner shall maintain a valid Ada County dog license for each dog as
required by section
5-7-3 of this code. The owner shall comply with section
5-7-4 of this code regarding limitations on dogs.
   C.   Facilities in which dogs are housed and the designated location for
feeding and watering shall be in the rear yard and a minimum of fifty feet
(50') from any property line. In residential districts and properties under 2.5
acres in the rural base districts, all dogs shall be housed indoors during the
night.
   D.   The dogs shall be physically restrained from running at large. In
residential districts, visual screening shall be required to buffer adjacent
land uses.
   E.   No commercial dog boarding shall be allowed.
   F.   The owner shall have a continuing obligation to maintain adequate
housekeeping and sanitation practices designed to prevent the creation of a
public nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and odor.
   G.   If located within airport influence area B-1, B, or C, the dogs shall
not spend more than two (2) hours each day outside a soundproofed structure as
set forth in chapter 3, article A of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd.
Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-60: LAUNDROMAT:
If abutting a residential district, the hours of operation shall be seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd.
Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-61: LAUNDRY OR LINEN SUPPLY:
There are no additional standards for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-62: LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT FACILITY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      1.   The term "existing facility" shall apply to any livestock
confinement facility that was legally in existence prior to the effective date
of this title.
      2.   The term "existing development" shall refer to uses and activities
that are nonagricultural or nonindustrial in nature including, but not limited
to: dwelling on a property less than ten (10) acres in size and that is under
construction, occupied, or listed for rent or sale; amusement or recreation
facility; outdoor auction establishment; bed and breakfast establishment;
boarding house; children's treatment facility; campground; church; club or
lodge or social hall; daycare facility; drug and alcohol treatment facility;
golf course; skilled nursing facility; racetrack; residential care facility;
and/or school. However, the term shall not include dwellings and/or
establishments associated with the AFO operation.
      3.   For information on "grandfather rights" for existing uses, see
chapter 1, article B, "Nonconforming Property, Use, Or Structure", of this
title.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   A new livestock confinement facility or expansion of an existing
facility that has three hundred (300) animal units or fewer shall not require
Master Site Plan approval.
      2.   A new livestock confinement facility or expansion of an existing
facility that will have more than three hundred (300) animal units shall be
deemed an animal feeding operation (AFO) and shall require Master Site Plan
approval.
      3.   A new AFO or expansion of an existing AFO that will have more than
one thousand (1,000) animal units shall require conditional use approval.
      4.   Existing facilities with more than two hundred thirty (230) animal
units shall have the option to register their facility with the Ada County
Development Services Department by one year after the effective date of this
title. The purpose of the registration is to establish the property boundaries
and the operating capacity of the livestock confinement facility. Operating
capacity shall be either the historic maximum animal units or the maximum
design capacity (in animal units) of the facility, whichever number is greater.
Existing facilities that register shall be allowed up to a thirty percent (30%)
increase in the registered operating capacity without Master Site Plan or
conditional use approval.
      5.   Aquaculture AFOs are exempt from the regulations in this section,
except for manure storage setback as set forth in table
8-5-1 of this section.
   C.   Standards: Livestock confinement facilities shall be located within an
RP, RR, RUT, RSW, R1, R1M, R2, R4, R6, R8, or R8M Base District.
   D.   Additional Standards For AFOs: In addition to the livestock facility
standards of subsection C of this section, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   Compliance: The AFO must comply with and not be in violation of any
Federal, State, or local law including, but not limited to, all applicable
State of Idaho Department of Agriculture, State of Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality, State of Idaho Department of Water Resources, and/or
Central District Health Department regulations and specifications.
      2.   Lighting: All proposed lighting shall comply with the provisions of
chapter 4, article H of this title.
      3.   Siting Standards: For expansions of existing facilities that require
Master Site Plan or conditional use approval, the location standards shall only
apply to proposed expansions.
         a.   Lagoons and manure storage shall not be located within a Flood
Hazard Overlay District.
         b.   All lagoons and manure storage areas shall maintain a minimum
separation distance, as set forth in table
8-5-1 of this section.
TABLE 8-5-1: AFO SETBACKS
Use Setback
    (In Feet)
Use                                                                  Setback
                                                                     (In Feet)
Another AFO lagoon or manure storage area where existing development 2,500
is within either AFO sphere of influence
Another AFO lagoon or manure storage area where there is no existing 1,250
development within either AFO sphere of influence
Existing development outside an area of city impact                  1,000
Existing development inside an area of city impact                   2,500
Public water intakes1                                                300
Domestic well2                                                       300
Streets and roadways                                                 200
Property lines not fronting a street or roadway                      300
 
Notes:
1.   Public water intakes shall include, but not be limited to, wells, springs,
lakes, and/or streams used as a potable water source.
2.   This does not include any domestic well of the AFO owner and/or operator.
         c.   Silage, haylage, potatoes, or any feed product resulting from the
ensilage process shall be stored no closer than three hundred feet (300') from
any property line.
         d.   Each existing facility with three hundred (300) or more animal
units and each proposed AFO shall have a one mile radius sphere of influence
from the lagoons and/or manure storage areas. The sphere of influence of a
proposed AFO may overlap the sphere of another AFO if no existing development
is within more than two (2) AFO spheres of influence.
   E.   Alternative Design: The Director may approve, or recommend approval of,
alternative site development when the overall design, as proposed by the
applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this section and
shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 801, 9-12-2012; amd. Ord. 880, 3-14-2018; amd. Ord. 902,
10-2-2019)
8-5-3-63: MANUFACTURE OF ELECTRONIC OR ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS:
There are no additional standards for this specific use. See Boise Air Terminal
Airport Influence Areas Overlay District, chapter 3, article A of this title.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-64: MANUFACTURE OR PROCESSING OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS OR GASES:
The following standards shall apply to the manufacture or processing of
hazardous chemicals or gases as a principal permitted use. The standards shall
not apply to research and development facilities.
   A.   All structures shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from any property line. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet
(1,000') from any residential district or approved hospital use.
   B.   All hazardous chemicals or gases shall be stored and/or used within an
enclosed structure.
   C.   The facility shall be enclosed by a minimum eight foot (8') high
security fence or wall. Entrance and exit shall be through a gate that shall be
locked during nonbusiness hours 1 .
   D.   The application materials shall include written documentation from the
appropriate fire authority approving the proposed location and plan
specifications of the facilities.
   E.   The application materials shall include maps and engineering drawings
showing proposed drainage, proposed sewer system design, the depth of the water
table, soil composition, all existing surface water, and all existing uses
within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the property. The applicant shall also furnish
evidence that the dangerous characteristics of the particular process or
activity in question have been, or shall be, eliminated or minimized
sufficiently so as not to create a public nuisance or be detrimental to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
   F.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-5-3-44 of this chapter.
8-5-3-65: MANUFACTURED HOME:
A "manufactured home", as herein defined, is a principal permitted use in the
rural districts and in the R1M and R8M districts. A manufactured home shall
meet the standards of a manufactured home, not the standards for a single-
family dwelling as herein defined. Unless otherwise provided for in this title,
only one manufactured home shall be allowed per property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-66: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
   COMMON PLAY AREA: Shall refer to the play area required in subsection F3 of
this section. The term common play area shall not refer to the outdoor living
area required in subsection D4 of this section.
   DRIVE: A privately owned roadway that provides internal circulation for
vehicles within the manufactured home park and/or access to manufactured home
spaces within the manufactured home park.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE: Shall refer to the area that is for lease or rent
as a site to place a manufactured home, including the required outdoor living
area. The manufactured home space shall be delineated on an approved master
site plan for a manufactured home park.
   SERVICE AREA: Shall refer to areas necessary for the management of the
manufactured home park. Such areas may include, but shall not be limited to:
storage and collection areas for trash and garbage, loading and unloading areas
other than passenger vehicles, and outdoor storage areas.
   B.   Density: The maximum density of a manufactured home park shall not
exceed the maximum density of the corresponding base district.
   C.   Use Standards:
      1.   Accessory uses shall be in conformance with the accessory uses of
the corresponding base district.
      2.   A single-family detached dwelling or a manufactured home may be
allowed for the sole use of a caretaker.
      3.   A recreational center and clubhouse may be allowed for the use of
park residents.
      4.   Manufactured home parks shall accommodate only manufactured homes –
not vacation trailers or other recreational vehicles except when stored within
a designated storage area. A manufactured home shall not remain overnight in a
manufactured home park unless it is parked in a manufactured home space. Not
more than one manufactured home shall be parked at one time in a manufactured
home space.
      5.   Manufactured home parks approved subject to the regulations of this
section may be expanded or altered after approval is obtained from the decision
making body. The application, filed by the owner or other party in interest,
shall be filed and processed in the same manner as an application for a new
manufactured home park.
   D.   Manufactured Home Space Design Standards:
      1.   No manufactured home space shall contain less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet. The gross average areas of all spaces in the park shall
not be less than three thousand (3,000) square feet. No drives, common play
area, or service area shall be considered as providing any part of the required
manufactured home space.
      2.   No manufactured home space shall be less than thirty feet (30') in
width and/or depth.
      3.   The boundaries of each manufactured home space shall have an
approved fence, wall, planting, or other permanent marker defining the
perimeter of the space.
      4.   An outdoor living area shall be provided in each manufactured home
space. Such outdoor living area shall be a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the
individual space, but in no case shall such area be less than three hundred
(300) square feet nor required to be more than five hundred (500) square feet.
The minimum dimension of such area shall not be less than fifteen feet (15').
   E.   Drives: Drives shall comply with the following standards and are
subject to plan review, field inspection, and approval by the county engineer:
      1.   The following construction standards apply to all drives in
manufactured home parks:
         a.   A minimum of one drive shall originate at a public street and
terminate at a public street. This standard is not intended to require two (2)
access points to the manufactured home park.
         b.   Drives shall have rolled concrete curb and gutter sections along
both sides of the drive and extending the length of the drive.
         c.   Drives shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30') wide from back of
curb to back of curb. The entire width of the drive shall be improved.
         d.   Drive shall have a crown or transverse slope a minimum of two
percent (2%) to drain water away from the travelway and shall be disposed of in
a manner that protects life and property.
         e.   The improved surface shall include 2.5 inches of asphalt plant
mix paving on top of the base course of six inches (6") of three-fourths inch
(3/4") minus crushed gravel or other materials approved by the county engineers
over a stable compacted subbase. As an alternative to asphalt plant mix,
concrete shall be allowed with the approval of the county engineer.
         f.   Bridge and culvert crossings shall be designed for a minimum H-16
loading.
         g.   The maximum allowable grade shall be ten percent (10%) slope.
         h.   The minimum center line curve radius shall be fifty feet (50').
         i.   The minimum curb radius at intersections shall be twenty feet
(20').
      2.   The county engineer may approve, or recommend approval of,
alternative drive designs when the overall design, as proposed by the
applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this article and
shall not be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare.
      3.   Sidewalks shall be constructed along one side of the drive and
constructed to the standards for local streets in the most current edition of
the development policy manual as adopted by the Ada County highway district.
   F.   Park Design Standards:
      1.   Two (2) off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each
manufactured home space. All off-street parking shall be improved to the same
standards as drives as noted in subsection E of this section. Parking areas for
accessory uses shall be paved in a like manner. For the purposes of this
section, off-street parking spaces shall mean off-drive parking spaces.
      2.   Outdoor lighting shall be provided to illuminate drives and
sidewalks. Lighting shall be subject to the regulations of chapter 4, article H
of this title.
      3.   Manufactured home parks that accommodate children less than fourteen
(14) years of age shall provide a common play area restricted to that use.
Parks that qualify as housing for older persons subject to the federal fair
housing act are exempt from this regulation.
         a.   A minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of common play area
shall be provided per manufactured home space; provided, however, that no such
common play area, regardless of the number of manufactured home spaces, shall
be less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
         b.   The common play area shall be protected from all streets, drives,
driveways, and parking areas by a minimum thirty six inch (36") barrier. The
fencing material shall meet the swimming pool barrier requirements of the Ada
County building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
      4.   All manufactured home parks shall comply with the Americans with
disabilities act accessibility guidelines.
      5.   Manufactured home parks shall provide a side and rear yard of a
minimum of twenty feet (20').
         a.   Where the neighboring property is in a residential base district,
such yard may be used for open space but shall not contain carports, storage
structures, or any other structures.
         b.   Where the neighboring property is in a rural, commercial, or
industrial base district such yard may be used for open space, group or
individual parking, recreational facilities, carports, or storage structures.
   G.   Screening: The following standards shall be in addition to the
landscaping and screening standards in chapter 4, article F of this title.
      1.   Along the perimeter of the manufactured home park, fences, walls,
and/or vegetative screening shall be provided to screen off-street parking
areas with more than five (5) spaces and service areas.
      2.   Fences, walls, and/or vegetative screening along the perimeter of
the manufactured home park shall be provided to protect park residents from
undesirable views, lighting, noise, or other off- site influences, or to
protect occupants of neighboring residential districts from potential adverse
influences within the manufactured home park including, but not limited to,
undesirable views, lighting, and/or noise.
      3.   Off-street parking areas with five (5) or more parking spaces and
service areas shall be screened from view of park residents.
   H.   Manufactured Home Placement Standards:
      1.   Carports, cabanas, awnings, and all other structures, whether herein
defined or not, that are attached to the manufactured home shall be considered
as a portion of the manufactured home. Such additions and structures shall
conform to the requirements of the Ada County building code as set forth in
title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
      2.   Trailer hitches shall not project beyond the manufactured home
space.
      3.   The minimum distance between a manufactured home (exclusive of
trailer hitches) and:
         a.   Any other manufactured home shall be ten feet (10').
         b.   Any structure shall be ten feet (10').
         c.   Any property line (excluding manufactured home space boundaries),
shall be equal to or greater than the required setback for the base district.
         d.   Any public street shall be equal to the required setback for the
base district.
         e.   Any common drive or walkway shall be five feet (5').
      4.   Not more than sixty percent (60%) of a manufactured home space may
be occupied by a manufactured home and any other accessory structures. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-67: MANUFACTURED HOME STORAGE:
   A.   Manufactured homes shall not be stored within the required yards.
Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
   B.   The site shall not be used as a "junkyard" or "automobile wrecking
yard" as herein defined.
   C.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-68: MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION OR PARK IN A MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT
(R1M, R8M):
   A.   Where an M district boundary abuts any district without an M
designation that does not have an intervening street, alley, or other permanent
open space a minimum of twenty feet (20') in width, a yard of twenty feet (20')
in minimum dimension shall be provided.
      1.   Where the neighboring district is residential, such yard may be used
for open space but shall not contain carports, storage structures, or any other
structures.
      2.   Where the neighboring district is rural, commercial, or industrial,
such yard may be used for open space, group or individual parking, recreational
facilities, carports, or storage structures.
   B.   Along the perimeter of an M district, fences, walls, and/or vegetative
screening shall be provided to screen off-street parking areas with more than
five (5) spaces and service areas.
   C.   Subdivision of property within an M district shall be approved by the
board subject to the regulations of chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Manufactured home parks shall meet the standards listed in section
8-5-3-66 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-69: MEATPACKING FACILITY:
   A.   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of
three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district or approved
hospital use.
   B.   The application materials shall include written documentation that the
proposed facility meets any applicable federal, state, or local standards
regarding such use including, but not limited to, those of the environmental
protection agency, the U.S. department of agriculture, central district health
department, and Idaho department of water resources. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-70: MORTUARY:
A mortuary may be allowed as an accessory use to a cemetery when located within
a fire district and/or when fire flow is available. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd.
Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-71: MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   The minimum roadway frontage shall be fifty feet (50') for multi-family
developments in the R12 and R20 districts.
   B.   The minimum dedicated open space requirement shall be thirty percent
(30%) for multi-family developments in the R12 and R20 districts.
   C.   Dedicated open space shall abut multi-family development within a
planned unit development.
   D.   Multi-family site development shall comply with the design standards
specified in section
8-4E-4 of this title.
   E.   The applicant may request an indoor amusement or recreation facility as
an accessory use to the multi-family development. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd.
Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-72: NURSERY, WHOLESALE OR RETAIL:
   A.   Outdoor mechanical equipment (including, but not limited to, heaters
and fans) shall not be located within fifty feet (50') of a property line. To
reduce noise, permanently mounted mechanical equipment shall be enclosed to the
maximum extent possible.
   B.   Outdoor storage areas for materials shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. The following nursery materials shall be exempt from
this requirement:
      1.   Growing plants in ground or in containers; and
      2.   Wood chips, bark, rock, gravel, or similar ground cover material
where such storage piles do not exceed six feet (6') in height.
   C.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the nursery shall comply
with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code.
   D.   The application of fertilizer or process wastewater at agronomic rates
shall be deemed a component of the nursery use.
   E.   Additional standards for wholesale and/or retail nursery within a
residential district or adjoining a residential district:
      1.   All proposed lighting shall comply with the provisions of chapter 4,
article H of this title.
      2.   Any storage area for material in the process of being converted into
compost shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any property
line.
      3.   No aerial spraying of the property shall be allowed.
   F.   Retail nurseries in the RUT (rural-urban transition) district shall
also comply with the following:
      1.   The total amount of enclosed retail space shall not exceed five
thousand (5,000) square feet. Greenhouses (as defined by this title) shall not
be considered retail space.
      2.   The property shall have frontage to an arterial street. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 518, 10-8-2003; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-73: NURSING FACILITY, SKILLED:
   A.   The owner and/or operator of the facility shall secure and maintain a
license from the state of Idaho department of health and welfare facility
standards division.
   B.   Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops, food
or beverage service, and personal service shops, may be allowed if designed to
serve residents only.
   C.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-74: OFFICE BUILDING:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-75: OFFICE, RELATING TO AN APPROVED USE:
An accessory office shall be allowed for an approved use. The office shall not
occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the
approved use. If the approved primary use is not located in a structure, the
office structure shall not occupy more than five percent (5%) of the property
area on which the primary use is located or five thousand (5,000) square feet,
whichever is less. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 743, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-76: OFFICE, TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION:
Any offices or accessory structures shall be removed from the property within
thirty (30) days of completion of the construction project. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-77: OFF STREET PARKING FACILITY:
Ground level parking areas (i.e., not in parking structures) shall be subject
to the landscape and screening requirements in section
8-4F-7 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14- 2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-78: OUTDOOR STORAGE AREA, FOR AN APPROVED USE:
   A.   Screening: Outdoor storage areas shall be screened according to the
regulations of section
8-4F-5 of this title. As required by section
8-4A-16 of this title, outdoor storage of chemicals and/or fertilizers shall be
prohibited.
      1.   All outdoor storage areas shall be completely fenced and screened
from public view. The fencing shall be at least six feet (6'), but not greater
than ten feet (10') in height. One side of the outdoor storage may be left
unenclosed, provided that the materials stored in the area shall not be visible
from a public roadway or an abutting property.
      2.   Cyclone or chainlink fencing (with or without slats) shall not be
deemed a screening material.
      3.   The landscaping plan shall incorporate vegetative materials along
the length of the screening to soften the appearance of such features.
   B.   Prohibited Locations: Materials shall not be stored within the required
yards. Stored items shall not block sidewalks or parking areas and may not
impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   C.   Use Of Site: The site shall not be used as a "pit, mine, or quarry" or
"contractor's yard" as herein defined unless such use has been approved.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: The site shall not be used as a "junkyard",
"automobile wrecking yard", or vehicle impound yard as herein defined.
   E.   Compliance: The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district
as set forth in chapter 3, article F of this title.
   F.   Additional Standards For Outdoor Storage As An Accessory Use: Accessory
outdoor storage shall be allowed for approved uses subject to the following
standards:
      1.   The location of the outdoor storage area shall be noted on the
master site plan and reviewed as part of that application.
      2.   Storage areas shall not be rented, leased, let, or otherwise used as
a commercial business.
      3.   Outdoor storage for commercial or industrial uses shall be limited
to those items owned or used by the business.
      4.   Outdoor storage for a multi-family development, recreational vehicle
park, or manufactured home park, shall be only for recreational vehicles or
personal recreation items of the tenants. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 743,
2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-79: PACKAGE AND LETTER DELIVERY SERVICE:
   A.   No structure, facility, drive lane, parking area, nor loading area
shall be located within twenty feet (20') of a residential district unless a
six foot (6') sound reduction wall is provided.
   B.   If abutting a residential district, the facility hours of public
operation shall be limited to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M.
   C.   All outdoor storage of material shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance. Outdoor storage areas shall
comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-80: PERSONAL, BUSINESS, OR PROFESSIONAL SERVICE:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-81: PIT, MINE, OR QUARRY:
A pit, mine, or quarry that meets the standards of subsection C of this section
shall be reviewed as a temporary use. Any other pit, mine, or quarry shall be
reviewed as a conditional use.
   A.   General Use Standards:
      1.   All operations shall be subject to accepted safety conditions for
the type of excavation being performed.
      2.   Asphalt mixing and concrete batching may only be allowed as
accessory uses to a pit, mine, or quarry in an industrial or rural district.
See standards in section
8-5-3-12 of this chapter.
      3.   Extraction, movement, or stockpiling within the required yards shall
be prohibited. The tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall remain outside
the required yards.
      4.   Areas where equipment is stored shall be deemed outdoor storage
areas and shall meet the standards of section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. Such storage areas shall be constructed and
maintained to prevent chemicals from discharging into surface or ground waters.
Such chemicals shall include, but not be limited to, petroleum products,
antifreeze, and lubricants.
      5.   The extraction area shall be watered daily to reduce dust impacts to
surrounding properties. Haul roads shall have a durable and dust free surface,
and shall be graded to drain all surface water from the haul roads.
      6.   The pit, mine, or quarry shall comply with the regulations of
chapter 3, article F of this title, if applicable.
      7.   For any pit, mine, or quarry requiring an administrative or
conditional use approval, the director shall notify all property owners within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any property boundary of the proposed site and
any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the use, as
determined by the director.
      8.   In accord with title 5, chapter 2 of this code, the storage and/or
disposal of solid waste on the proposed site shall be prohibited.
      9.   Upon reclamation of the final phase, all temporary structures shall
be removed from the property, except for property line fences or walls. Any
contaminated soils shall be properly recycled or disposed.
   B.   General Design And Reclamation Standards:
      1.   The applicant shall provide documentation (from the appropriate
agency) that the proposed pit, mine, or quarry operation and reclamation plan
comply with federal and state regulations in regard to air and water quality
and site reclamation.
      2.   For a pit, mine, or quarry where the excavation area results in a
pond, the following standards shall apply:
         a.   The extraction areas shall be designed to create a meandering
edge.
         b.   The applicant shall provide written documentation from Idaho fish
and game that the proposed pond is designed to create viable fish and/or
wildlife habitat.
         c.   The applicant shall provide documentation from Central District
health department that the proposed pond shall not cause septic leach fields on
abutting properties to fail.
         d.   For the purposes of this section, a "pond" shall be defined as
any pit, mine, or quarry area where the rehabilitation plan results in an area
that contains water to within six feet (6') of the surface year round.
      3.   Any riparian vegetation disturbed as part of the operation shall be
replaced at a ratio of two to one (2:1). Replacement vegetation shall be native
plant materials and shall meet the requirements of table
8-4F-1, "Minimum Plant Size Standards", of this title.
      4.   The applicant or owner shall comply with all requirements of "Best
Management Practices For Mining In Idaho", published by the Idaho department of
lands.
   C.   Standards For Temporary Use Approval:
      1.   The property has not received previous approval for a pit, mine, or
quarry as a temporary use.
      2.   The maximum area of the extraction site shall be six (6) acres.
      3.   The proposed extraction activities shall be completed within five
(5) years.
      4.   The pit, mine, or quarry shall meet the standards in subsections A
and B of this section.
      5.   Stockpiles shall be a maximum of fifteen feet (15') in height.
      6.   All extraction and hauling activities shall take place between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and dusk or six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (whichever is earlier)
Monday through Friday.
      7.   Haul roads shall not pass through existing residential
neighborhoods. For the purpose of this subsection C, the term "residential
neighborhood" shall be any residential subdivision development at a density of
one or more units per acre. This standard shall not apply to a pit, mine, or
quarry that is located in R1, R1M, R2, R4, R6, R8, R8M, R12, or R20 base
district.
      8.   Additional standards for a pit, mine, or quarry located in an R1,
R1M, R2, R4, R6, R8, R8M, R12, or R20 base district:
         a.   The maximum extraction area shall be limited to the equivalent of
the maximum allowed coverage (see section
8-2B-4 of this title).
         b.   Stockpiles shall be a maximum of six feet (6') in height.
         c.   No rock crushing shall be done on site.
         d.   The proposed extraction activities shall be completed within one
year.
   D.   Standards For Conditional Use Approval:
      1.   The pit, mine, or quarry shall meet the standards in subsections A
and B of this section.
      2.   The approved site plan shall include adequate parking and loading
areas to accommodate the peak number of vehicles. Such areas shall not be
within the required yards.
      3.   Rock crushing may be allowed as an accessory use.
      4.   The applicant shall show the extraction and reclamation phasing plan
on the master site plan.
      5.   The reclamation plan for each phase shall be implemented as soon as
the subject area is depleted of resources 1  or when the allowed time has ended
(whichever occurs first).
      6.   The conditional use approval shall consider and/or establish a time
frame for the extraction of material. For any proposal where the applicant
requests an extraction period greater than five (5) years, the commission shall
review the status of the pit, mine, or quarry after 2.5 years and consider
amendments or additions to the approval. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426,
9-26-2001 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 47-1511.
8-5-3-82: PORTABLE CLASSROOM:
Portable classrooms that are not indicated on an approved conditional use shall
require administrative approval. If the proposed use cannot meet all of the
following specific use standards, the use shall require conditional use
approval:
   A.   A school site shall be allowed a maximum of three (3) portable
classrooms as an accessory use.
   B.   The portable classroom shall not be located in the front yard of the
principal school structure.
   C.   The portable classroom shall not be located in any required yard.
   D.   The placement of the portable classroom shall not reduce the number of
required off street parking spaces.
   E.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000 ; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-83: POWER FACILITY, CENTRALIZED POWER FACILITY, DISTRIBUTED POWER
FACILITY, ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE, ELECTRIC SUBTRANSMISSION LINE, AND
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE AND SUBSTATIONS:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Electric Distribution Line:
         a.   Electric distribution line shall be a principal permitted use.
Master site plan approval shall not be required.
         b.   Electric distribution line rights of way shall be exempt from the
landscaping regulations of chapter 4, article F of this title.
         c.   Electric distribution line shall comply with section
8-4A-20 of this title.
      2.   Electric Subtransmission Line:
         a.   Electric subtransmission line shall be a principal permitted use.
Master site plan approval shall be required. A parking plan is not required
with the master site plan application unless a parking area is proposed with
the subtransmission line.
         b.   Electric subtransmission line rights of way shall be exempt from
the landscaping regulations of chapter 4, article F of this title.
         c.   Electric subtransmission line shall comply with section
8-4A-20 of this title.
      3.   Electric Transmission Line And Substation:
         a.   Electric transmission line and substations shall require
conditional use approval.
         b.   All electric transmission line rights of way shall be exempt from
the landscaping regulations of chapter 4, article F of this title.
         c.   Electric substations and other utility structures shall be deemed
outdoor storage areas and shall meet the standards in section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
         d.   Towers for the purpose of communicating from the substation to
remote devices shall be deemed an accessory use to an approved substation,
provided that the pole and antenna are no taller than the existing towers.
         e.   Electric transmission line and substations shall comply with
section
8-4A-20 of this title.
      4.   Centralized Or Distributed Power Facilities:
         a.   No power facility shall be used for displaying any advertising
except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or operator.
         b.   The power facility shall comply with section
8-4A-21 of this title.
         c.   The power facility shall comply with all local, state, and
federal regulations.
         d.   Installation of an anemometer or similar devices shall be
reviewed as a temporary use. See chapter 4, article L of this title for
governing regulations.
   B.   Specific Standards Applicable To Centralized Power Facilities:
      1.   Standards Applicable To All Centralized Power Facilities:
         a.   The minimum property size shall be forty (40) acres.
         b.   The centralized power facility shall not be located within an
area of city impact.
         c.   The applicant may be required to obtain approval from the
appropriate agency, including, but not limited to, the following: federal
energy regulatory commission, federal aviation administration, national guard,
Mountain Home military base, Idaho bureau of aeronautics, Boise Airport
director, IPUC, Idaho Power Company compliance, Idaho fish and game, U.S.
department of fish and wildlife, Idaho department of water resources, IDEQ, Ada
County emergency communications division, Idaho bureau of homeland security
public safety communications, and the appropriate fire authority as a condition
of approval.
         d.   The master site plan for the proposed centralized power facility
shall include a map of the proposed transmission line corridors and any
proposed or existing substations, if any.
      2.   Additional Standards For Certain Centralized Power Facilities:
         a.   Biomass Facility:
            (1)   The applicant shall identify the specific location and type
of all fuel sources for the biomass facility, and the method of gathering and
delivering the fuel to the site.
            (2)   Mass burn facilities shall not use waste containing hazardous
materials as a fuel source.
         b.   Hydroelectric Facility:
            (1)   Major earthwork associated with construction and maintenance
shall be scheduled to minimize soil disturbance between December 1 and April
15.
            (2)   Any removal of riparian vegetation along watercourses shall
be replaced at a ratio of two to one (2:1).
            (3)   A master site plan approval is not required for a
hydroelectric facility, relating to a seasonal irrigation canal.
         c.   Solar Facility:
            (1)   Solar equipment shall meet the required setbacks of the rural
preservation (RP) district.
            (2)   All solar panels shall be nonreflective.
   C.   Specific Standards For Certain Distributed Power Facilities:
      1.   Geothermal Resources: Direct use of geothermal resources for heating
spas, greenhouses, and other similar uses shall not constitute a distributed
power facility.
      2.   Solar Facility:
         a.   All solar panels shall be nonreflective.
         b.   Roof mounted solar equipment shall not exceed five feet (5')
above the roof surface and in no case shall the equipment exceed the maximum
height of the base district.
         c.   Ground and pole solar equipment shall be prohibited in the
required front or side yard.
         d.   Pole solar equipment shall not exceed a maximum height of fifteen
feet (15').
         e.   Pole solar equipment shall be set back 1.5 feet from the property
line for every one foot (1') of maximum height or the minimum setback for the
district, whichever is greater.
         f.   Ground solar equipment shall meet the minimum setback for the
district in which it is located.
      3.   Wind Facility:
         a.   Specific Standards For Rooftop Or Freestanding Wind Tower:
            (1)   The applicant may be required to obtain approval from the
appropriate agency, including, but not limited to, the following: federal
energy regulatory commission, federal aviation administration, national guard,
Mountain Home military base, Idaho bureau of aeronautics, Boise Airport
director, IPUC, Idaho Power Company compliance, Idaho fish and game, U.S.
department of fish and wildlife, Idaho department of water resources, IDEQ, Ada
County emergency communications division, Idaho bureau of homeland security
public safety communications, and the appropriate fire authority as a condition
of approval.
            (2)   Documentation shall be submitted that describes the expected
maximum noise level that will be generated by the facility. If the noise level
exceeds the applicable standard set forth below, the applicant shall submit an
acoustical study prepared by a licensed professional that demonstrates how the
facility will comply with the maximum allowed noise level.
            (3)   No experimental, homebuilt, or prototype wind turbines shall
be allowed.
         b.   Rooftop Wind Facilities:
            (1)   A minimum property size shall be one acre.
            (2)   One rooftop wind facility requires an accessory use; see
article A of this chapter.
            (3)   Two (2) or more rooftop wind facilities require a conditional
use; see article B of this chapter.
            (4)   Rooftop wind equipment shall not exceed the maximum height of
the base district in which it is located.
            (5)   The maximum diameter of the blades shall not exceed five feet
(5').
            (6)   Roof mounted wind equipment shall be located so that in the
event of failure, no part of the equipment will fall across any property line.
            (7)   Noise emitted from a rooftop wind facility shall not exceed
thirty five (35) decibels (dBA) measured from all external property lines of
the subject property.
         c.   Freestanding Wind Facilities:
            (1)   Minimum Property Size: The minimum property size shall be
forty (40) acres.
            (2)   Number Of Towers Allowed Per Acre: One wind tower per forty
(40) acres shall be allowed.
            (3)   Restriction On Number Of Towers: A property owner shall only
be allowed to construct a maximum of two (2) wind towers on their property,
including all of their abutting properties.
            (4)   Maximum Height: The maximum height shall be one hundred
twenty feet (120') including the tip height of the blade.
            (5)   Location From Property Lines: All wind tower facilities shall
be located a minimum of 1.5 feet from all property lines for every one foot
(1') of tower height, including the tip height of the blade as illustrated in
section
8-1A-2,
figure 7, of this title.
            (6)   Fall Zone: In addition to the setback requirements in
subsection C3c(5) of this section, a fall zone for each wind tower facility
shall be delineated and permanently restricted from future development, as
follows:
               (A)   The fall zone shall consist of the land area centered
beneath the wind facility and circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to
the maximum height including the tip height of the blade plus ten feet (10') as
illustrated in section
8-1A-2,
figures 7 and
8, of this title.
               (B)   All future development with the exception of agricultural
structures shall be prohibited within the fall zone.
            (7)   Minimum Setback From Overhead Utility Lines: The minimum
required setback distance from all overhead utility lines shall be no less than
the tower height including the tip height of the blade plus ten feet (10')
unless extended by an easement from the overhead utility line company for the
fall distance.
            (8)   Maintenance And Removal:
               (A)   Maintenance: All wind facilities and their identification
tags, supports, braces, mechanical and electrical equipment, and associated
apparatus must be kept fully operable and maintained in a safe, neat, and clean
condition.
               (B)   Removal: Any wind facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months or more or that is in an obvious state
of disrepair and a threat to public safety will be deemed abandoned and must be
removed within sixty (60) days.
            (9)   Shadow Flicker: The facility owner and operator shall make
reasonable efforts to minimize shadow flicker to any nonparticipating
landowner's property.
            (10)   Color: Wind facilities shall be a neutral, nonreflective
color designed to blend with the surrounding environment. This shall not
preclude towers requiring FAA painting and/or marking from meeting those
standards.
            (11)   Minimum Distance From Ground To Blade: Minimum distance
between the ground and the tip of the blade closest to the ground in a resting
position shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
            (12)   Landscaping: All wind facilities shall be exempt from the
landscaping regulations of chapter 4, article F of this title.
            (13)   Lighting: No lighting is allowed, except as required by the
federal aviation administration.
            (14)   Uncontrolled Rotation Prevention: All wind turbines must
have an automatic braking, governing, or feathering system to prevent
uncontrolled rotation creating excessive pressure on the tower structure, rotor
blades, and turbine components.
            (15)   Emergency Shutdown: Procedures for emergency shutdown of
power generation units shall be established and posted prominently and
permanently within three feet (3') of the meter panel.
            (16)   Director's Review: The conditional use permit shall require
a director's review every five (5) years upon issuance of a zoning certificate.
The director shall review the conditions of approval for compliance.
            (17)   Noise: Noise emitted from a freestanding wind facility shall
not exceed forty five (45) decibels (dBA) as measured from all external
property lines of the subject property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 772, 7-
27-2011; amd. Ord. 797, 4-24-2012 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-84: PROCESSING PLANTS FOR AGRICULTURAL OR DAIRY PRODUCTS:
   A.   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of
three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district or approved
hospital use.
   B.   The application materials shall include written documentation that the
proposed facility meets any applicable federal, state, or local standards
regarding such use including, but not limited to, those of the environmental
protection agency, the U.S. department of agriculture, Central district health
department, and Idaho department of water resources. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000 ;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-85: PRODUCT FABRICATION, ASSEMBLY, OR PACKAGING:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-86: PRODUCE STAND, AGRICULTURAL OR ROADSIDE:
   A.   Standards for both agricultural and roadside produce stands:
      1.   One stand per property under one ownership is allowed, subject to
approval as set forth in this chapter.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a site plan drawn to scale showing all
existing and proposed structures, parking and signage.
      3.   The applicant shall submit a detailed letter addressing the type of
produce that shall be sold from the stand.
      4.   Display and sale of produce shall be allowed from May 1 to October
31 each year.
      5.   Access to a stand shall be from a roadway and shall be approved by
the Ada County highway district or Idaho department of transportation.
      6.   A stand shall not be allowed on private roads unless one of the
following can be demonstrated:
         a.   The private road does not provide access or frontage to any other
property; or
         b.   An existing or updated recorded maintenance/easement agreement
addresses and permits nonresidential use of the private road.
      7.   The stand shall have an off street parking and loading area that is
consistent with chapter 4, article G, "Off Street Parking And Loading
Facilities," of this title.
      8.   Hours of operation shall be limited between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
      9.   One on premises business sign for the stand may be placed, which
shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet, and must be removed when the
operation closes for the season. There shall be no flashing or intermittent
lighting.
      10.   A building permit may be required for the change in use or
occupancy of any portion of structures used for the stand.
      11.   A stand that is a membrane covered structure under the IBC shall
require a building permit if it is erected for one hundred eighty (180) days or
longer.
   B.   Additional standards for agricultural produce stands:
      1.   The agricultural produce stand shall only be located on a "farm" as
defined in this title.
      2.   The agricultural produce stand shall only sell produce grown on the
premises.
      3.   A zoning certificate is required.
      4.   The area dedicated to the sale, display and storage of produce shall
not exceed four hundred (400) square feet.
   C.   Additional standards for roadside produce stands:
      1.   Administrative approval and zoning certificate is required.
      2.   Sales at the roadside produce stand shall be limited to produce, the
majority of which must be grown on the premises.
      3.   The area dedicated to the sale, display and storage of produce shall
not exceed six hundred (600) square feet. (Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-87: PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Minimum Setbacks; Compatibility: All structures shall meet the minimum
required setbacks for the applicable base district, except within a residential
district where there shall be a minimum setback of thirty five feet (35') from
any public street and twenty five feet (25') from any other property line.
Structures shall be designed and constructed to be compatible with the
surrounding properties including, but not limited to, building materials and
building mass.
   B.   Public Recreation Facilities: The standards as set forth for amusement
and recreation facilities 1  shall apply for all public recreation facilities.
   C.   Storm Drainage And Storm Detention Facilities: A storm drainage
facility and/or storm detention facility that are an accessory use to a roadway
on the same property shall be exempt. For the purposes of this standard, the
contiguous parcel regulations of section
8-4A-8 of this title shall not apply.
   D.   Underground Utilities: Underground utilities within an easement or
within a public street right of way shall not require additional approval.
   E.   Correctional Facilities: Any privately owned correctional facility
designed for residence by incarcerated individuals shall meet the following
standards:
      1.   No structure or outdoor recreation area shall be located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of a property line that abuts a residential district.
      2.   No structure or outdoor recreation area shall be located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of a public or private school, daycare center, or
church. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011)
 
Notes
1    See sections 8-5-3-8 and 8-5-3-9 of this chapter.
8-5-3-88: RACETRACK, VEHICLE OR ANIMAL:
   A.   If the racetrack provides animal boarding, such facilities shall be
subject to the regulations of section
8-5-3-10, "Animal Boarding With Outside Runs", of this chapter. If the
racetrack provides horse boarding, such facilities shall be subject to the
regulations in section
8-5-3-108, "Stable Or Riding Arena, Commercial", of this chapter.
   B.   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of
three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district.
   C.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the racetrack shall comply
with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code.
   D.   Lighted facilities shall maintain a three hundred foot (300') setback
from any property line abutting a residential district and shall comply with
the lighting standards set forth in chapter 4, article H of this title. Setback
requirements may be reduced at time of master site plan approval when
conditions warrant a reduction. Possible conditions include, but are not
limited to, building orientation, topography, distance to off site
improvements, and physical obstructions.
   E.   Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops and
food or beverage service, may be allowed if designed to serve patrons of the
facility only, and is approved by the Central district health department and
the applicable fire authority. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001;
amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-89: RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATION:  
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-90: RAILROAD SWITCHING YARD:  
All structures shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any
residential district. No outdoor storage of material shall be permitted. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-91: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK:
   A.   Use Of Spaces: Spaces may be used by recreation vehicles, tents, or
other shelter arrangements or devices.
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses including, but not limited to,
management headquarters, recreational facilities, caretaker dwelling, coin
operated laundry facilities, toilets, and showers may be allowed, subject to
the following restrictions:
      1.   The park shall have direct access to a collector or arterial street.
No entrance or exit to the park shall be permitted through a residential
district.
      2.   Drives: Drives shall comply with the following standards and are
subject to plan review, field inspection, and approval by the county engineer:
         a.   A minimum of one drive shall originate at a public street and
terminate at a public street. This standard is not intended to require two (2)
access points to the recreational vehicle park.
         b.   Drives shall have rolled concrete curb and gutter sections along
both sides of the drive and extending the length of the drive.
         c.   Drives shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30') wide from back of
curb to back of curb. The entire width of the drive shall be improved.
         d.   Drive shall have a crown or transverse slope a minimum of two
percent (2%) to drain water away from the travelway and shall be disposed of in
a manner that protects life and property.
         e.   The improved surface shall include 2.5 inches of asphalt plant
mix paving on top of the base course of six inches (6") of three-fourths inch
(3/4") minus crushed gravel or other materials approved by the county engineers
over a stable compacted subbase. As an alternative to asphalt plant mix,
concrete shall be allowed with the approval of the county engineer.
         f.   Bridge and culvert crossings shall be designed for a minimum H-16
loading.
         g.   The maximum allowable grade shall be ten percent (10%) slope.
         h.   The minimum center line curve radius shall be fifty feet (50').
         i.   The minimum curb radius at intersections shall be twenty feet
(20').
   C.   Design Standards:
      1.   The park shall have direct access to a collector or arterial street.
No entrance or exit shall be permitted which moves traffic from the park
through a residential district.
      2.   Internal drives shall meet the drive standards required for a
manufactured home park 1 .
      3.   The applicant shall indicate the specific location of each proposed
space on the master site plan.
         a.   All recreational vehicle spaces shall have an all weather surface
and be drained to prevent standing water.
         b.   Spaces shall be a minimum size of one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet.
         c.   Recreational vehicles shall not be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any other recreational vehicle, structure, manufactured home, public
street, or property line.
         d.   Recreational vehicle spaces shall not be located in any required
off street parking space or required yard.
      4.   Any outdoor speaker system associated with the recreational vehicle
park shall comply with the noise regulations of section
5-13-3 of this code.
      5.   A dump station for discharging wastewater holding tanks shall be
provided unless each space is equipped with a sewer connection. Such discharge
facilities shall be approved by the central district health department. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
1    See subsection 8-5-3-66E of this chapter.
8-5-3-92: RECYCLING CENTER:
   A.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. No storage, excluding truck trailers, shall be
visible above the required screening material.
   B.   Except for after hours donation containers, no unsorted material shall
be stored outdoors.
   C.   Any container provided for after hours donation of recyclable materials
shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from a residential district, shall be of
sturdy, rustproof construction, and shall have sufficient capacity to
accommodate materials collected.
   D.   Power driven processing (including, but not limited to, aluminum foil
and can compacting, baling, plastic shredding, or other light processing
activities necessary for efficient temporary storage and shipment of materials)
may be allowed when located within an enclosed structure.
   E.   All recycling center grounds and facilities shall be maintained in an
orderly manner so as not to create a public nuisance. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-93: RECYCLING PLANT:  
All recycling plant grounds and facilities shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-94: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY:  
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-95: RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY:
   A.   The owner of the facility shall secure and maintain a license from the
Idaho department of health and welfare, facility standards division.
   B.   Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops, food
or beverage service, and personal service shops, may be allowed if designed to
serve residents and/or staff only.
   C.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-96: RESTAURANT OR EATING PLACE:
   A.   In a commercial district, no additional standards are required for this
specific use.
   B.   An eating place within an industrial district shall be subject to the
following regulations:
      1.   The eating place shall not qualify as a "restaurant" as herein
defined.
      2.   If located on the ground level, the gross square footage of the area
devoted to the eating place shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
gross floor area on the ground level.
      3.   The eating place shall be completely enclosed within the structure
housing the industrial use.
      4.   No sign advertising the eating place shall be visible from a public
right of way or private road. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-97: RETAIL SALES, RELATING TO AN APPROVED USE:  
Accessory retail sales shall be allowed for an approved commercial or
industrial use, excluding uses within the M3 district. The area devoted to
retail sales shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross
floor area of the approved use. Unless otherwise permitted in this title or as
a condition of approval, no accessory retail sales shall be permitted in the
rural base districts. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-98: RETAIL STORE:  
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
8-5-3-99: SANITARY LANDFILL, RESTRICTED:
   A.   All structures shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from any property line. Active landfill disposal sites shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district.
   B.   The use shall comply with all applicable overlay districts as set forth
in chapter 3 of this title.
   C.   The decision making body may specify definite time limits for daily
operation and for termination of such use.
   D.   The applicant shall comply with all applicable regulations pertaining
to designation, licensing and maintenance of restricted sanitary landfills and
disposal sites as set forth in title 5, chapter 2 of this code; Idaho Code
title 31, chapter 44; and title 39, chapters 65, 70, and 74.
   E.   All structures shall comply with the height limit per the applicable
base district unless specifically exempt under section
8-4A-10 of this title.
   F.   All off street parking shall be provided as per chapter 4, article G of
this title.
   G.   All outdoor lighting shall comply with chapter 4, article H of this
title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 816, 12-4-
2013; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-100: SAWMILL OR PLANING MILL:
   A.   The use shall be conducted within an enclosed structure.
   B.   There shall be a one thousand foot (1,000') separation from the mill
structure and any residential district.
   C.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-5-3-101: SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE:
   A.   Locations for public school sites shall be determined in conformance
with the applicable comprehensive plan. The following location criteria shall
apply unless in conflict with the applicable comprehensive plan:
      1.   Elementary schools shall take access off a local street.
      2.   Middle schools, junior high schools, and senior high schools shall
take access off a designated arterial or urban collector street.
      3.   No elementary, middle, or junior high schools shall abut a
commercial or industrial district.
      4.   No school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a
hazardous land use.
   B.   All structures shall meet a minimum setback of forty feet (40') from
any public street and thirty feet (30') from any other property line.
   C.   Accessory uses including, but not limited to, daycare centers,
community services, social services, meeting facilities for clubs and
organizations, and administrative offices for the individual school facility
may be allowed. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 591,
7-27-2005 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-102: SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL OR TRADE:
   A.   Schools within the TI district shall have major curriculum relating to
technological industrial research and processes.
   B.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000 ; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-103: SEASONAL FARMWORKER HOUSING:
   A.   The applicant shall specify the season and crop for which the housing
is required. The facility shall not be occupied or otherwise used as dwelling
units other than during the specifically permitted period.
   B.   All dwellings or dormitories within the facility shall have adequate
sewage and water facilities as provided in section
8-4A-22 of this title. If recreational vehicles are proposed as dwelling units,
such recreational vehicles shall have power, water, and sewer hookups.
   C.   Accessory uses including, but not limited to, management headquarters,
recreation areas, coin operated laundry facilities, and communal toilets and
showers, may be allowed if such facilities are designated on the facility
master site plan and are to be used only by residents of the facility.
   D.   No structure shall be closer than one hundred feet (100') from an
abutting property within a residential district. No structure shall be closer
than ten feet (10') from any other structure.
   E.   Access drives and parking areas shall have a durable and dust free
surface, and the area shall be graded so as to drain all surface water from the
driveways.
   F.   If the applicant and/or owner are found to be in violation of any of
the standards listed in this section, the facility approval shall be revoked.
Upon revocation of a permit, the owner may not reapply for a facility for any
location in the county for a period of three (3) years following the date of
revocation. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-
2-2019)
8-5-3-104: SEPTAGE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY, PRIVATE:
The following standards apply to establishments that import septage from septic
tanks for treatment and disposal.
   A.   General Use Standards:
      1.   Minimum Property Size: The minimum property size shall be forty (40)
acres.
      2.   Written Approval: The applicant or owner shall obtain written
approval for the acceptance, treatment and disposal of septage from the state
of Idaho department of environmental quality. The approval shall make specific
reference to the location of the facility, type of facility, the substance(s)
being treated and its sources, the method(s) of treatment, the method(s) and
location(s) of disposal of solids, monitoring methods, and the ability of the
site to support the proposed use.
      3.   Security Fencing: Security fencing shall be provided to prevent
access to the facility by animals and unauthorized persons as required by DEQ.
      4.   Prohibited Locations: The proposed use shall not be located in any
city area of impact, the Snake River birds of prey national conservation area,
airport overlay district, or wildlife habitat area as depicted in the Ada
County comprehensive plan.
      5.   Minimum Distance From Property Line/Residential District: All
structures, ponds/lagoons, and waste storage areas shall be located a minimum
of three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district.
      6.   Compliance With Flood Hazard Overlay Zone: The use shall comply with
the flood hazard overlay district as set forth in chapter 3, article F of this
title.
      7.   Zoning Inspection: For the duration of the approval, the use shall
be subject to zoning inspection upon advanced notice and request by the Ada
County development services department. If a permit holder refuses to allow
inspection of the premises by the development services department, the approved
zoning certificate or conditional use permit may be revoked.
      8.   Operator Licensed And Qualified: The applicant shall submit written
approval that the operator of the private septage disposal facility is licensed
and qualified as required by DEQ.
      9.   Private Roads Prohibited: Private septage treatment and disposal
facilities shall not be allowed on a private road.
      10.   Odor Management Plan: The applicant shall submit an odor management
plan for the septage disposal facility as required by DEQ.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   The application materials shall include the following written
documentation:
         a.   Description of the surrounding area within one mile of the
subject site including the proximity of existing residential dwellings;
         b.   The number and frequency of anticipated deliveries from outside
companies dumping septage;
         c.   The anticipated quantity (in gallons) of septage to be accepted;
         d.   Parking: One spot for every one employee and one for every one
thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area;
         e.   The hours and days of operation;
         f.   Description of the disposal method(s), including, but not limited
to: evaporative lagoon(s), land application, or subsurface discharge
(interment), and proposed location of disposal;
         g.   Description of the proposed substance(s) being treated and its
source(s), the method(s) of treatment, monitoring methods, and the ability of
the site to support the proposed use;
         h.   Storage and screening method for materials to be used to process
solid waste (i.e., woodchips) and location of storage goods. (Ord. 852, 3-2-
2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-105: SHOOTING RANGE:
   A.   Written Approval: The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval
from the federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco, and firearms.
   B.   Outdoor Range:
      1.   The proposed use shall be within a rural district, but outside the
Snake River birds of prey national conservation area or wildlife habitat area
as depicted in the Ada County comprehensive plan.
      2.   The master site plan shall designate the layout of the range
including, but not limited to, shooting platforms, targets, target backstops,
and berms.
      3.   The range shall be designed and located so no ammunition travels off
site.
      4.   The applicant shall provide written documentation that the proposed
target backstops conform to the standards for outdoor ranges in "The NRA Range
Source Book" published by the National Rifle Association.
   C.   Indoor Range:
      1.   All related activities shall be housed totally within an enclosed
structure and designed with full consideration for safety and noise factors
involved in the type of use.
      2.   If located on the ground level, accessory uses such as gun sales,
gun repair, and training courses may be allowed when such uses take up no more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area on the ground level.
      3.   If gun sales or gun repair are conducted within the facility, the
owner of the indoor shooting range shall secure and maintain a valid federal
firearms license from the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, and firearms.
      4.   The applicant shall provide written documentation that the proposed
target backstops conform to the standards for indoor ranges in "The NRA Range
Source Book" published by the National Rifle Association.
   D.   Alternative Development Proposal: The director may approve, or
recommend approval of, an alternative development proposal when the overall
design, as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the
requirements of this chapter and shall not be detrimental to public health,
safety, and welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
852, 3-2-2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-106: SLAUGHTERHOUSE:
   A.   The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval of the state of
Idaho department of health and welfare for elimination of waste materials.
   B.   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of
three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district or approved
hospital use.
   C.   A meatpacking facility may be an accessory use to the slaughterhouse.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-107: SOIL OR WATER REMEDIATION:
The following standards apply to establishments that import soil and/or water
for remediation. The standards do not apply to in situ remediation of soil and/
or water.
   A.   The minimum property size shall be forty (40) acres.
   B.   The proposed use shall not be located in the Snake River birds of prey
national conservation area or wildlife habitat area as depicted in the Ada
County comprehensive plan.
   C.   The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval from the state of
Idaho division of environmental quality. The approval shall make specific
reference to the location, substance being treated, method of treatment,
monitoring methods, and ability of the site to support the proposed use.
   D.   The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval from Central
district health department.
   E.   The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title.
   F.   All structures shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from any property line. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet
(1,000') from any residential district or approved hospital use. (Ord. 389, 6-
14-2000; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-108: STABLE OR RIDING ARENA, COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Any establishment that meets one or more of the following criteria
shall be deemed a commercial use and shall require conditional use approval:
      1.   The riding arena is open to the general public, a homeowners'
association or a club.
      2.   The riding arena is for private use, but is enclosed within a
structure that exceeds twenty four feet (24') in height and/or the total area
of the structure exceeds two thousand (2,000) square feet.
      3.   The riding arena can be rented by an individual or group.
      4.   Spectator seating for more than fifty (50) people is provided at the
arena.
      5.   Retail sales accessory to the stable or riding arena are conducted
on site.
      6.   Group lessons are provided to the general public for a fee.
   B.   All commercial riding arenas and commercial stables shall provide
sufficient parking and turnaround areas for horse trailers. Such areas shall be
designed to preclude vehicles from backing out into a roadway.
   C.   The minimum property size for commercial stables or commercial riding
arenas shall be five (5) acres.
   D.   Only off site catering is permitted, and must be approved by the
Central district health department. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-
2001; amd. Ord. 582, 5-25-2005; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019)
8-5-3-109: STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE AND STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE -
OUTDOOR ONLY:
   A.   Storage Facility, Self-Service: Specific standards for storage
facilities, self-service, shall be as follows:
      1.   Storage areas shall not be used as dwellings or as a commercial or
industrial place of business. The manufacture or sale of any item from or at a
self-service storage facility is specifically prohibited.
      2.   The maximum size of individual storage areas shall be five hundred
(500) square feet.
      3.   The distance between structures shall be designed to allow a twelve
foot (12') travel lane for emergency vehicles to pass while tenant's vehicles
are parallel parked (9 foot width) at the entrance to their storage areas.
      4.   The perimeter of the storage facility shall be completely fenced,
walled, or enclosed and screened from public view. Fencing materials shall
complement the exterior building materials.
      5.   No structure, facility, drive lane, parking area, nor loading area
shall be located within twenty feet (20') of a residential district unless a
six foot (6') sound reduction wall is provided.
      6.   If abutting a residential district, the facility hours of public
operation shall be limited to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M.
      7.   Storage of any hazardous materials as defined by title 40 code of
federal regulations part 261, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall be
prohibited.
   B.   Storage Facility, Self-Service - Outdoor Only: Specific standards for
storage facilities, self-service - outdoor only, shall be as follows:
      1.   Parcel Size; Site Coverage: A minimum parcel size of five (5) acres
shall be required for any proposed outdoor only storage facility. Any eligible
property shall be limited to an overall maximum site coverage of twenty percent
(20%), and no facility shall be greater than fifteen (15) acres in size.
      2.   Frontage: The property shall have frontage to an arterial street.
      3.   Distance Between Stored Vehicles: The distance between stored
vehicles, including RVs and trailers, shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') side
to side, while maintaining a minimum of twenty feet (20') access aisle on at
least one end or as approved by the local fire authority. The distance between
parking rows shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') of travel lane for
emergency vehicle access or as approved by the local fire authority. Each space
shall have access from an access aisle that is a minimum of twenty feet (20').
      4.   Screening: The perimeter of the storage facility shall be completely
fenced, walled, or enclosed and screened from the public right of way, and
comply with chapter 4, article F of this title. For the purpose of perimeter
landscaping and screening, property lines, as described in section
8-4F-6 of this title, shall refer to the specific facility boundaries.
      5.   Location: No boundary of the facility shall be located within one
hundred feet (100') of a residential property line, with the exception of a
boundary adjacent to a public roadway.
      6.   Dwellings; Places Of Business: Stored vehicles, including RVs and
trailers, shall not be used as dwellings or as a commercial or industrial place
of business. The manufacture or sale of any item from or at an outdoor only
self-service storage facility is specifically prohibited.
      7.   Storage Of Hazardous Materials: Storage of any hazardous materials
as defined by title 40 code of federal regulations part 261, or subsequent
amendments thereto, shall be prohibited.
      8.   Design Standards: Minimum design standards for the facility shall
include the following:
         a.   The storage facility shall be screened year round and comply with
chapter 4, article F of this title. This article provides for the minimum
required screening. The commission may require additional or modified screening
and/or buffering in order to prevent or enhance the blocking of views of
existing adjacent residences and to maintain the rural and residential
character of the RUT district.
         b.   Access locations into the facility shall be approved by the
applicable transportation jurisdiction.
         c.   All parking, storage and drive aisles within the facility shall
be improved with a compacted gravel base, not less than four inches (4") thick,
surfaced with asphaltic concrete or some comparable all weather dustless
material.
         d.   All storage stalls shall be clearly defined on the site plan. The
facility shall designate and maintain storage stall locations on site at all
times.
         e.   Outdoor storage areas shall further comply with the requirements
for outdoor storage, as set forth in section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
      9.   Use As A Junkyard Prohibited: The site shall not be used as a
"junkyard" or "automobile wrecking yard" as herein defined.
      10.   Storage: The storage of any items and materials other than
vehicles, RVs, or trailers is prohibited unless otherwise approved by the
commission; provided, that items and materials contained within a vehicle, RV
or trailer are permitted.
      11.   Maintenance, Repair, Or Rebuilding: Maintenance, repair, or
rebuilding of vehicles or machinery on the property is prohibited.
      12.   Noise: Use of the property shall comply with title 5, chapter 13,
"Noise", of this code.
      13.   Hours Of Operation: Unless otherwise approved or restricted through
the conditional use, hours of operation shall be limited between the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Facilities abutting
residential uses (section
8-1A-2, figure 5 of this title) shall be limited to the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
      14.   Prohibited Locations: Vehicles shall not be stored within the
required yards.
      15.   Use Of Site: The site shall not be used as a "contractor's yard" as
herein defined unless such use has been approved.
      16.   Compliance: The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay
district as set forth in chapter 3, article F of this title.
      17.   Zoning Inspection: For the duration of the approval, the use shall
be subject to zoning inspection upon advanced notice and request by the Ada
County development services department. If a permit holder refuses to allow
inspection of the premises by the development services department, the approved
zoning certificate or conditional use permit may be revoked.
      18.   On Site Office Prohibited: An on site office within the confines of
the storage facility is prohibited. If the facility owner has a dwelling
located on the remaining property, and if that dwelling will be used by the
owner to administer the facility, or if the owner intends to administer the
facility from an off site dwelling, then the owner shall obtain a home
occupation permit and comply with the requirements of section
8-5-3-54 of this chapter.
      19.   Additional Standards:
         a.   The following shall be considered as part of the review of an
application:
            (1)   The proximity of existing dwellings;
            (2)   The number of vehicles anticipated to be stored upon the
property;
            (3)   The hours of operation;
            (4)   Dust;
            (5)   Noise;
            (6)   Traffic and circulation;
            (7)   Landscaping and screening;
            (8)   Other.
         b.   The duration of a conditional use permit for an outdoor only
storage facility shall be limited. The conditional use permit shall expire five
(5) years following the approval date, or upon annexation of the subject
property into a city, whichever occurs first. If the applicant wishes to
continue the use beyond the five (5) year period, a new conditional use permit
shall be submitted prior to expiration of the original conditional use permit
and approved by the commission. Upon expiration of the conditional use permit,
all stored vehicles shall be removed within thirty (30) days from the subject
property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 822, 5-7-2014; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-
2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-110: STRUCTURE GREATER THAN TEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET 1 :
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; rep. by Ord. 660, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016 ;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 8-4A-26 of this title.
8-5-3-111: STUDIO:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-112: SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE:
All swimming pools shall be provided with a barrier which meets the
requirements of the Ada County building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2
of this code. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 852, 3-2-2016 ; amd. Ord. 902,
10-2-2019)
8-5-3-113: TANNERY:
   A.   The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval of the state of
Idaho department of health and welfare for elimination of waste materials.
   B.   All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of
three hundred feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district or approved
hospital use.
   C.   The tannery shall have adequate sewer and water facilities as provided
in section
8-4A-22 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd.
Ord. 852, 3-2-2016 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-114: TOWER OR ANTENNA STRUCTURE, COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   The following regulations shall apply to tower structures and
associated equipment for the purpose of commercial radio, television,
telephone, paging, or satellite reception and/or transmission.
      2.   A facility that meets the following standards shall be reviewed as
an accessory use. Any other facility shall be reviewed as a conditional use.
         a.   Collocation of new antenna and/or equipment for an approved tower
structure, commercial shall be deemed an accessory use and shall require a
zoning certificate prior to installation.
         b.   Small wireless facilities shall be deemed an accessory use and
shall require a zoning certificate prior to installation.
      c.   Small Wireless Support Structures located outside of the Ada County
Highway District and Idaho Department of Transportation rights-of-way shall
require a zoning certificate and building permit prior to installation.
   B.   General Standards For Commercial Tower Structures And Associated
Equipment:
      1.   Radio Frequency Emissions: The facility shall comply with FCC
standards regarding radio frequency (RF) emissions.
      2.   Approval Required: The facility shall have approval from the Federal
Aviation Administration and the Chief of the Idaho Bureau of Aeronautics prior
to operation.
      3.   Additional Approval: The facility shall have approval from the Boise
Airport Director prior to operation. The approval shall include specific
reference to the site location, height of the facility, lighting, and issuance
of an avigation easement.
      4.   Permits Required: The applicant or owner shall be required to obtain
all necessary permits, as may be required under Federal, State or local
statutes, regulations, or ordinances including, but not limited to, building
permits.
      5.   Maintenance Of Facility: The facility shall be maintained in
compliance with all Federal, State, and local regulations and the construction
standards set forth in this section.
      6.   Public Nuisance Prohibited: The owners of the facility shall have a
continuous obligation to ensure the maintenance and upkeep and to prevent the
creation of a public nuisance.
      7.   Outdoor Storage Areas: The proposed facility shall meet the
standards for outdoor storage areas in section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter.
      8.   Conditional Use Approval: For any facility requiring conditional use
approval, the director shall notify all property owners within a minimum of one
thousand feet (1,000') of any property boundary of the proposed site.
      9.   Removal:
         a.   Any tower that has had no antenna mounted upon it for a period of
120 consecutive days, or if the antennas mounted thereon are not operated for a
period of 120 successive days, shall be considered abandoned. The tower owner
or landowner thereof shall:
            (1)   Remove any such tower and any accompanying equipment
enclosure within ninety (90) days of abandonment; and
            (2)   Bring the location of the removed facility back to its
original state, or better.
         b.   The Director, upon determining that a tower has been abandoned,
shall serve notice of its determination of abandonment upon the owner of the
tower.
            (1)   The notice shall contain the reasons why the tower has been
deemed abandoned, the owner's obligation to remove the tower and the owner's
right to appeal the determination of abandonment.
            (2)   If the structure and equipment enclosure are not removed
within 90 days, then the County has the right without further notice to enter
upon the land and remove and abate such structures at the expense of the tower
owner or landowner.
      10.   Tower Construction, Setback, And Fall Zone Standards:
         a.   The tower shall be constructed to the Telecommunications Industry
Association/Electronic Industries Association (TIA/EIA) 222 revision F standard
entitled "Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Supporting Structures", or as
hereinafter may be amended.
         b.   Within the Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas Overlay
District, the height limit on the tower or antenna structure shall be as
required by the Code of Federal Regulations 14 CFR 77.
         c.   Towers over twenty feet (20') in height must be designed to allow
for future arrangements of antennas upon the tower. Such towers must also be
designed to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
         d.   If the tower does not exceed the height limitations of the
applicable base district, the tower shall meet the setback requirements of the
district. If the tower exceeds the height limitation of the applicable base
district, the tower shall meet the setback requirements of the district or it
shall be set back one foot (1') for every ten feet (10') of total tower height
from all property lines, whichever is greater.
         e.   In addition to the setback requirement noted in the preceding
paragraph, a fall zone for each tower shall be delineated and permanently
restricted from future development, as follows:
            (1)   The fall zone shall consist of the land area centered beneath
the tower and circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to a length of one
foot (1') for every ten feet (10') of tower height.
            (2)   If the fall zone does not lie completely within the subject
property, the applicant must obtain a nonrevocable easement from all owners of
property within the fall zone that prohibits the construction or placement of
new structures within the fall zone, except as may be specifically permitted
through the conditional use process. If an easement is utilized, a copy of the
fully executed easement agreement shall be submitted as part of the
application.
         f.   Towers shall be architecturally and visually compatible with the
existing structures, vegetation, and/or uses in the area or likely to exist in
the area under the terms of the applicable base district and/or comprehensive
plan. The decision making body shall consider, but shall not be limited to, the
following factors: similar height, color, bulk, and/or shape, or camouflage
techniques to disguise the facility. This shall not preclude towers requiring
FAA painting and/or marking from meeting those standards.
         g.   This subsection B shall not apply to small wireless facilities
that meet the standards found in subsections C and D of this section.
   C.   General Standards For Small Wireless Support Structures And Small
Wireless Facilities:
      1.   Small Wireless Support Structures:
         a.   Small Wireless Support Structures shall not exceed the height
limitation of forty five feet (45').
         b.   Small wireless support structures that are over twenty feet (20')
in height and located within a utility easement or public right-of-way must be
designed to allow for future arrangements of antennas and to accept antennas
mounted at varying heights upon the small wireless support structure, to the
extent reasonably feasible based upon construction, engineering and design
standards.
         c.   Small wireless support structures shall be permitted within
utility easements or public rights-of-way in accordance with the requirements
of this section.
         d.   Single carrier small wireless support structures may be used
within utility easements and public rights-of-way due to the height
restrictions imposed by this section.
         e.   The replacement of pre-existing small wireless support structures
shall be subject to all the same requirements as the construction of new small
wireless support structures.
      2.   Small Wireless Facilities:
         a.   Small wireless facilities located within utility easements or
public rights-of-way are exempted from setback requirements.
         b.   Small wireless facilities may extend up to ten feet (10') above
the height of a small wireless support structure.
         c.   Small wireless facilities may be mounted on a roof of a building
only if the height of the small wireless facility at the highest point does not
exceed the horizontal distance from the small wireless facility to the edge of
the roof.   
         d.   The Small Wireless Facilities shall be architecturally and
visually compatible with regard to similar height, color, bulk, and/or shape,
and/or use of camouflage techniques.
   D.   Application Requirements: The application materials shall include the
following written documentation:
      1.   Suitability Analysis Of The Proposed Site: The analysis shall
include, but is not limited to, the following:
         a.   Description of the surrounding area within one mile of the
subject site including topography; and
         b.   For towers and/or associated facilities that do not meet the
definition of Small Wireless Support Structures and Small Wireless Facilities.
Propagation charts showing existing and proposed transmission coverage at the
subject site and within an area large enough to provide an understanding of why
the facility needs to be placed at the chosen location.
         c.   For towers and/or associated facilities that meet the definition
of Small Wireless Support Structures and Small Wireless Facilities. A map and
written analysis describing existing and proposed transmission coverage.
      2.   Facilities Not Meeting Definitions Of Small Wireless Support
Structures And Facilities: For towers and/or associated facilities that do not
meet the definitions of small wireless support structures and small wireless
facilities: if applicable, a signed lease agreement, relevant portions of which
require the applicant to remove the tower and/or associated facilities upon
cessation of use.
      3.   Facilities Meeting Definitions Of Small Wireless Support Structures
And Facilities: For towers and/or associated facilities that meet the
definitions of small wireless support structures and small wireless facilities:
if applicable, a signed lease agreement, master lease agreement or letter of
authorization from the property owner or controlling entity that requires the
applicant to remove the tower and/or associated facilities upon cessation of
use.
      4.   Prior To Construction: Before construction of a small wireless
support structure or small wireless facility commences in a utility easement or
public right-of-way, the applicant shall provide written evidence of a permit,
license, or legal right or approval to use such structure or facility by the
Ada County Highway District, other controlling entity, or the owner.
      5.   Applicants may submit consolidated applications for up to five (5)
Small Wireless Facilities being installed, modified, replaced, or collocated.
   E.   Additional Application Requirements For Facilities That Require A
Conditional Use Approval:
      1.   Engineering data showing that the tower is designed structurally,
electrically, and in all other respects to accommodate both the applicant's
equipment and comparable equipment for a minimum of one additional user if the
tower is over twenty feet (20') in height. If the tower is over one hundred ten
feet (110') in height, it shall be designed structurally, electrically, and in
all other respects to accommodate both the applicant's equipment and comparable
equipment for a minimum of two (2) additional users.
      2.   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer that
describes the facility height and design (including a cross section and
elevation); documents the height above grade for the recommended mounting
position for collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas; describes the facility's capacity; and any other information
necessary to evaluate the request. The report must include the engineer's stamp
and registration number.
      3.   A letter of intent committing the facility owner and successors to
allow the shared use of the facility, as required by this title, if additional
users agree in writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
      4.   A map and written analysis demonstrating that the facility cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower within a two (2) mile radius. 
      5.   It shall be the burden of the applicant to demonstrate that the
proposed facility cannot be accommodated on an approved tower or structure
within the two (2) mile search radius due to one or more of the following
reasons:
         a.   Unwillingness of a property owner, or tower or facility owner to
entertain shared use.
         b.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing tower or structure, as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer, and the existing tower or facility structure cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
         c.   The planned equipment would cause radio interference with
material impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the
tower or structure, and the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable
cost as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer or other
professional qualified to provide necessary documentation.
         d.   Existing or approved towers or other structures within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to be
commercially functional as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer or other professional qualified to provide necessary documentation.
         e.   The proposed collocation with an existing tower or structure
would be in violation of a local, State, or Federal law.
         f.   Any other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to collocate
upon an existing or approved tower or structure as documented by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer, or other professional qualified to provide
necessary documentation.
      6.   It shall be the burden of the applicant to demonstrate that a good
faith effort has been made to solicit the location of the proposed tower on
federal, state, county or city property when such property exist within the two
(2) mile radius. Evidence of this shall include, at a minimum, copies of
notices sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to all federal,
state, county or city property managers asking the possibility of locating the
proposed tower on said property and requesting a written response within
fifteen business days.
      7.   It shall be the burden of the applicant to demonstrate that a good
faith effort has been made to solicit additional users for the proposed tower.
Evidence of this shall include, at a minimum, copies of notices sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to all other providers of cellular
and wireless communications services within Ada County, advising of the intent
to construct a new tower, identifying the location, inviting the joint use and
sharing the costs, and requesting a written response within fifteen business
days. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 417, 1-10-2001; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001;
amd. Ord. 757, 8-11-2010; amd. Ord. 894, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-115: TOWER OR ANTENNA STRUCTURE, PRIVATE:
   A.   Applicability: The following regulations shall apply to tower
structures for the purpose of private radio, television, or satellite reception
and antennas for amateur radio. Towers shall not be subject to the accessory
structures regulations of section
8-5-3-1 of this chapter.
   B.   General Standards:
      1.   The tower or antenna structure is only for private, not commercial,
use.
      2.   The tower or antenna structure is accessory to a permitted or
approved use.
      3.   The applicant shall provide verification of compliance with the
regulations and requirements of the following agencies, as applicable:
         a.   Federal Aviation Administration.
         b.   Idaho Transportation Department (Bureau of Aeronautics).
         c.   The City of Boise Airport Commission.
      4.   An amateur radio tower for a licensed amateur radio operator that
exceeds the height limit for structures in the applicable base district shall
require accessory use approval by the Director. The applicant must be a
licensed amateur radio operator. Any other tower that exceeds the height limit
for structures in the applicable base district shall require conditional use
approval.
   C.   Tower Construction Standards:
      1.   Within the Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas Overlay
District, the height limit on the tower shall be as required by the Code of
Federal Regulations 14 CFR 77.
      2.   If the tower does not exceed the height limitations of the
applicable base district, the tower shall meet the setback requirements of the
district.
      3.   If the tower exceeds the height limitation of the applicable base
district, the following standards shall apply:
         a.   The tower shall meet the setback requirements of the district or
it shall be set back one foot (1') for every ten feet (10') of total tower
height from all property lines, whichever is greater.
         b.   The applicant shall submit a report from a qualified and licensed
professional engineer and installed in accord with the manufacturer's
specifications that describes the facility height and design (including a cross
section and elevation). The report must include the engineer's stamp and
registration number.
         c.   The applicant shall provide a copy of the notice of construction
filed with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
         d.   A fall zone for each tower shall be delineated and permanently
restricted from future development, as follows:
            (1)   The fall zone shall consist of the land area centered beneath
the tower and circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to a length of one
foot (1') for every ten feet (10') of tower height.
            (2)   If the fall zone does not lie completely within the subject
property, the applicant must obtain a nonrevocable easement from all owners of
property within the fall zone that prohibits the construction or placement of
new structures within the fall zone, except as may be specifically permitted
through the conditional use process. If an easement is utilized, a copy of the
fully executed easement agreement shall be submitted as part of the
application.
      4.   Towers not requiring FAA painting and/or marking shall have either a
galvanized finish or shall be painted a noncontrasting blue, gray, or black
finish. Alternative colors or finish materials may be approved by the Director.
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-116: TRANSIT FACILITY:
The master site plan shall designate sufficient areas to accommodate the
maximum number of buses, vans, or other transit vehicles anticipated at any one
time. No queuing areas shall be located within the required yards. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000 ; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-117: TRUCK STOP:
   A.   The use shall be located on a principal arterial that is within one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') of an interstate interchange.
   B.   Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of
vehicles (including, but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps,
garages for minor repair) may be allowed.
   C.   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval
from the Idaho Division of Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water
Resources, and the appropriate fire authority.
   D.   If the truck stop has been designated a safe haven facility by the
board for trucks transporting hazardous materials, accessory sleeping quarters
may be allowed.
   E.   Other accessory uses including, but not limited to, office, restaurant,
and convenience retail, may be allowed if such facilities are completely within
the truck stop facility. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001 ; amd.
Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-118: VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD:
   A.   Screening:
      1.   Outdoor storage and outdoor activity areas shall comply with section
8-5-3-78 of this chapter. The fence or wall and screening materials shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') in height.
      2.   No portion of the vehicle impound yard outdoor storage areas and/or
outdoor activity areas may be visible from any "highway", "interstate",
"principal arterial", or "minor arterial" as herein defined.
      3.   All materials or parts shall be stored and located within the fenced
or walled area. No vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed the
height of the fence or wall.
   B.   Site Related Standards:
      1.   The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000')
from any Residential District.
      2.   No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a vehicle impound
yard, any portion of which is within one thousand feet (1,000') of the nearest
edge of the right-of-way and visible from any "highway", "interstate",
"principal arterial", or "minor arterial" as herein defined.
      3.   The use shall comply with the Flood Hazard Overlay District as set
forth in chapter 3, article F of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-119: WAREHOUSE:
No additional standards are required for this specific use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5-3-120: WINERY:
   A.   Standards For Wineries:
      1.   The winery shall comply with all applicable State, Federal, and
local regulations.
      2.   The property shall have access and frontage on a public road.
      3.   In zoning districts where a winery is a conditional use, tasting
rooms and promotional events, such as but not limited to wine club events and
winemakers dinners, may be allowed as part of the conditional use. A tasting
room is only allowed on a property when part of a winery. Promotional events
shall be limited to not more than twenty-four small (fifty guest maximum)
events per year. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 477,
1-7-2003; amd. Ord. 755, 7-21-2010; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
ARTICLE A. ACCESSORY USES
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Purpose
8-5A-2: Applicability
8-5A-3: Process
8-5A-4: Standards
8-5A-5: Required Findings
8-5A-1: PURPOSE:
This article provides procedures and required findings for accessory uses as
set forth subject to the base district 1 , any applicable Overlay Districts 2 ,
and in accord with the specific use standards of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
2 2. See chapter 3 of this title.
8-5A-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations apply to any property in unincorporated Ada County where an
accessory use is allowed under the regulations of this title and where the
property has an established principal permitted use. The following table
indicates accessory uses requiring a zoning certificate and/or approval by the
Director:
TABLE 8-5A-1: ACCESSORY USES AND REQUIRED APPROVAL
              Required
Accessory Use Zoning      Administrative
              Certificate Approval
                                         Required
Accessory Use                            Zoning      Administrative
                                         Certificate Approval
Accessory structure, 200 square feet or  No          No
less
Accessory structure, >200 <1,500 square  Yes         No
feet
Accessory structure, >1,500 square feet  Yes         Yes
Agricultural produce stand               Yes         Yes
Agricultural structure                   Yes         No
Automotive, hobby                        Yes         No
Daycare, family daycare home             Yes         No
Daycare, group daycare facility          Yes         Yes
Distributed power facility, solar        Yes         No
integrated, or solar pole
Distributed power facility, solar        No          No
rooftop, solar ground
Distributed power facility, wind rooftop Yes         Yes
(1 accessory only)
Dwelling, additional farm                Yes         Yes
Dwelling, caretaker for an approved use  Yes         Yes
Dwelling, secondary attached or detached Yes         Yes
Fence, barbed wire, electric wire, or    No          No
other
Fuel cell                                Yes         No
Gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel    Yes         No
sales
Home occupation, large                   Yes         Yes
Home occupation, small                   Yes         No
Kennel, hobby                            Yes         Yes
Livestock confinement facility, 300 AU   No          No
or fewer
Mortuary                                 No          No
Office, relating to an approved use      No          No
Office, temporary construction           Yes  No     No
Outdoor storage                          No          No
Pit, mine, or quarry                     Yes         Yes
Portable classroom                       Yes         Yes
Produce stand, agricultural              Yes         No
Produce stand, roadside                  Yes         Yes
Retail sales, relating to an approved    No          No
use
Roadside produce stand                   Yes         Yes
Sign, administrative approval not        No          No
required
Sign, administrative approval required   Yes         Yes
Small wireless facilities                Yes         No
Swimming pool, private                   Yes         No
Temporary living quarters                Yes         Yes
Temporary use                            See chapter 4, article L of this title
Tower or antenna structure, private, 6   Yes         No
feet or less
Tower or antenna structure, private, > 6 Yes         Yes
feet
 
(Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 581, 5-25-2005; amd.
Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 692, 4-23-2008; amd. Ord. 713, 11-12-2008; amd.
Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 755, 7-21-2010; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd.
Ord. 797, 4-24-2012; amd. Ord. 801, 9-12-2012; amd. Ord. 804, 11-14-2012; amd.
Ord. 894, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019; Ord. 970, 3-13-2024)
8-5A-3: PROCESS:
An administrative approval shall be subject to review by the director subject
to the regulations of subsection
8-7-2A of this title. The approval process shall be as follows:
   A.   The applicant shall submit an application and fees on forms provided by
the Development Services Department as set forth in Chapter 7, Article A of
this title.
   B.   The director shall apply the specific use standards listed in section
8-5-3 of this chapter and the findings listed in section
8-5A-5 of this article to review the accessory use.
   C.   The applicant and/or owner shall have one (1) year to obtain all
necessary permits and obtain a zoning certificate.
   D.   The director shall determine that all conditions of approval have been
met and that the accessory use is in conformance with this section before a
zoning certificate is issued. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5A-4: STANDARDS:
In addition to the specific use standards set forth in this chapter, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   The applicant shall have a continuous obligation to maintain adequate
housekeeping practices so as not to create a nuisance.
   B.   The Director may require additional conditions to mitigate impacts. The
conditions may include, but not be limited to, any or all of the following:
      1.   Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other
potentially objectionable impacts.
      2.   Limits on time of day for the conduct of the specified use.
      3.   The period within which the permit shall be exercised or otherwise
lapse.
      4.   Other standards necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare and mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
8-5A-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   The proposed use shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety,
or welfare. The proposed use shall not adversely impact the health and safety
of surrounding residents, nor shall it create undue adverse impacts on
surrounding properties;
   B.   The proposed use is consistent with the applicable comprehensive plan;
   C.   The proposed use complies with the purpose statement of the applicable
base district and with the specific use standards as set forth in this chapter;
   D.   The proposed use complies with the dimensional standards of the
applicable base district;
   E.   The proposed use complies with all applicable County ordinances;
   F.   The proposed use complies with all applicable State and Federal
regulations;
   G.   The proposed use and facilities shall not adversely affect or conflict
with abutting uses or impede the normal development of surrounding property;
   H.   Adequate public and private facilities such as utilities, landscaping,
parking spaces, and traffic circulation measures are, or shall be, provided for
the proposed use;
   I.   For private tower structures, the proposed tower complies with any
applicable Federal Communications Commission decisions and regulations;
   J.   For signs, the sum of the area of all building and freestanding signs
on the property conforms to the standards specified in chapter 4, article I of
this title. The size, characteristics, location, and number of signs on the
property conform to the standards specified in chapter 4, article I of this
title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 675, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-
2019)
ARTICLE B. CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
8-5B-1: Purpose
8-5B-2: Applicability
8-5B-3: Process
8-5B-4: Conditional Use Standards
8-5B-5: Required Findings
8-5B-1: PURPOSE:
This article provides procedures, general conditional use standards, and
required findings for various conditional uses as set forth under the base
district 1 , any applicable overlay districts 2 , and in accord with the
specific use standards of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
2 2. See chapter 3 of this title.
8-5B-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The regulations of this chapter shall apply to any use that requires
conditional use approval as noted in the applicable base district 1  or overlay
district 2 .
   B.   Any modification or expansion of a previously approved conditional use
that would generate the need for a new master site plan review 3  shall require
a new conditional use approval.
   C.   Upon the sale or transfer of an approved conditional use, and if the
approved use requires a license to operate, the subsequent property owner or
operator must provide evidence of proper licensing to the director. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 618, 5-10-2006)
 
Notes
1 3. See chapter 2 of this title.
2 4. See chapter 3 of this title.
3 5. See section
  8-4E-2 of this title.
8-5B-3: PROCESS:
A conditional use shall be subject to a public hearing, review, and approval
subject to the regulations of subsection
8-7-2D of this title. The approval process shall be as follows:
   A.   The applicant shall submit an application and fees on forms provided by
the development services department as set forth in chapter 7, article A of
this title.
   B.   The applicant shall concurrently submit and obtain approval for a
master site plan subject to the regulations of chapter 4, article E of this
title, unless specifically exempt under the regulations of that article. Any
accessory buildings or facilities and any outdoor storage areas shall be noted
on the master site plan and reviewed as part of the conditional use.
   C.   The decision making body shall apply the specific use standards listed
in section
8-5-3 of this chapter, the general conditional use standards in section
8-5B-4 of this article, and the findings listed in section
8-5B-5 of this article to review the conditional use.
   D.   The applicant shall provide written documentation indicating the
facility has been approved by all applicable public agencies before a zoning
certificate is issued.
   E.   The applicant has two (2) years to obtain all necessary permits and
obtain a zoning certificate.
   F.   The director shall determine that all conditions of approval have been
met and that the conditional use is in conformance with this section before a
zoning certificate is issued.
   G.   The minor modification provisions set forth for approved master site
plans in subsections
8-4E-3F and G of this title shall also apply to approved conditional uses.
   H.   All other modifications to an approved conditional use shall be
considered in accordance with section
8-5B-2 of this article. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd.
Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 730, 7-7-2009; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5B-4: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS:
In addition to the specific use standards set forth in this chapter, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   The applicant shall guarantee to comply with the approved plans and
specifications.
   B.   The applicant shall have a continuous obligation to maintain adequate
housekeeping practices so as not to create a nuisance.
   C.   The site plan for the conditional use shall address firefighting
resources. Such resources shall include, but are not limited to, proper access
for firetrucks, water for fire flow and/or defensible space.
   D.   No structure or facility (excluding signs) shall be located within
twenty feet (20') of a residential district unless a sound wall1 is provided.
See also section
8-4F-6 of this title.
   E.   A sound wall shall be included in the landscape plan for any parking
areas abutting a residential district. See also section
8-4F-7 of this title.
   F.   The owner and/or operator shall maintain sanitary practices so as not
to create a public nuisance and to reduce noise and odor.
   G.   The owner and/or operator shall provide evidence that any dangerous
characteristics of the proposed use have been or shall be eliminated or
minimized so as not to create a nuisance or be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or welfare.
   H.   If abutting or within a residential district, the facility hours may be
limited by the decision making body.
   I.   If abutting or within a rural district, the proposed use shall not
cause detrimental impacts to agriculture.
   J.   The decision making body may require additional conditions to mitigate
impacts. The conditions may include, but not be limited to, any or all of the
following:
      1.   Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other
potentially objectionable impacts.
      2.   Limits on time of day for the conduct of the specified use.
      3.   The period within which the permit shall be exercised or otherwise
lapse.
      4.   Other standards necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare and mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-5B-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   The proposed use is not detrimental to the public health, safety, or
welfare;
   B.   The proposed use shall not create undue adverse impacts on surrounding
properties;
   C.   The proposed use is consistent with the applicable comprehensive plan;
   D.   The proposed use complies with the purpose statement of the applicable
base district and with the specific use standards as set forth in this chapter;
   E.   The proposed use complies with all applicable county ordinances;
   F.   The proposed use complies with all applicable state and federal
regulations;
   G.   The proposed use and facilities shall not impede the normal development
of surrounding property;
   H.   Adequate public and private facilities such as utilities, landscaping,
parking spaces, and traffic circulation measures are, or shall be, provided for
the proposed use; and
   I.   Political subdivisions, including school districts, will be able to
provide services for the proposed use. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 806, 5-
8-2013)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Applicability
8-6-3: Process
8-6-4: Plat Specifications
8-6-4-1: Sketch Plat Specifications
8-6-4-2: Preliminary Plat Specifications
8-6-4-3: Final Plat Specifications
8-6-5: Required Findings
8-6-6: Vacation, Total Or Partial, Of A Recorded Subdivision Plat
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide uniform standards for the subdivision
of property, to protect property, and to protect the health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Ada County. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
699, 6-18-2008)
8-6-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Subdivision In Unincorporated Areas: This chapter shall apply to the
subdivision of all property within the unincorporated area of Ada County except
as may be modified by title 9 of this code.
   B.   Unlawful:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to make a subdivision of property until the
requirements of this chapter are satisfied.
      2.   No plat or any instrument passing title to any portion of a plat
shall be offered for recording unless approved in accord with the regulations
of this title.
      3.   No building permit shall be issued on any property being considered
in the subdivision process until: a) the final plat has been recorded, b)
assessor's parcel numbers have been assigned, and c) all required public
improvements have been constructed and approved by the appropriate authority or
a surety agreement and a performance bond have been submitted to and approved
by the director.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to reduce a property containing an approved
distributed power facility, wind freestanding tower below the forty (40) acre
minimum property size as of the effective date hereof; provided further, none
of the exceptions listed in subsection C of this section are applicable to such
properties, excepting a "property reduced by governmental action" in accord
with section
8-4A-19 of this title.
   C.   Exceptions: The following divisions of property shall not constitute a
subdivision:
      1.   A "property boundary adjustment" in accord with chapter 4, article C
of this title and as defined in section
8-1A-1 of this title.
      2.   An approved onetime division in accord with chapter 4, article B of
this title.
      3.   The division of property as a result of condemnation, as defined and
allowed in the Idaho Code.
      4.   The expansion or acquisition of street rights of way by a public
highway agency.
      5.   An approved farm development right in accord with the regulations of
section
8-2A-5 of this title.
      6.   Abutting parcels that qualify as an exception to the contiguous
parcel regulation as set forth in section
8-4A-8 of this title.
      7.   A "property reduced by governmental action" in accord with section
8-4A-19 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord.
699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 768, 1-12-2011; amd. Ord. 772, 7-27-2011)
8-6-3: PROCESS:
   A.   Reserved.
   B.   Neighborhood Meeting: The applicant or owner shall conduct a
neighborhood meeting according to the regulations outlined in section
8-7A-3 of this title prior to submission of an application for a sketch plat or
preliminary plat.
   C.   Application And Fees: All applications and fees, as set forth in
chapter 7, article A of this title, shall be submitted to the director on forms
provided by the development services department.
      1.   A digital format of the plat may be required by the county surveyor.
      2.   Sketch and preliminary plats shall concurrently submit a natural
features analysis as set forth in subsection D of this section. A natural
features analysis is not required if the entire subject property already had
one completed from a previous approved preliminary plat.
      3.   Codes, covenants, and restrictions, if applicable, shall be
submitted concurrent with a sketch or preliminary plat application.
      4.   The sketch plat or preliminary plat application for subdivisions in
an overlay district shall contain any additional reports or materials required
by chapter 3 of this title.
      5.   If an applicant or owner intends to complete the final platting of
the subdivision in phases, the proposed phasing shall be submitted with the
application.
      6.   If an irrigation right exists to the property, the applicant shall
submit an irrigation plan that is consistent with Idaho Code section 31-3805.
      7.   The applicant shall concurrently submit an application for and
obtain approval of a master site plan subject to the regulations of chapter 4,
article E of this title for multi-family, commercial, or industrial
subdivisions that utilize a continuous service drive.
   D.   Natural Features Analysis: The following features shall be mapped,
described, or noted as not applicable in the natural features analysis:
      1.   Hydrology: Analysis of natural drainage patterns and water resources
including an analysis of streams, natural drainage swales, ponds or lakes,
wetlands, floodplain areas or other areas subject to flooding, poorly drained
areas, permanent high groundwater areas, and seasonal high groundwater areas
throughout the site.
      2.   Soils: Analysis of types of soils present in the site area including
delineation of prime agricultural soil areas, aquifer recharge soil areas,
unstable soils most susceptible to erosion, and soils suitable for development.
The analysis of soils shall be based on the Ada County soils survey (United
States department of agriculture, natural resources conservation service).
      3.   Topography: Analysis of the site's terrain including mapping of
elevations and delineation of slope areas greater than twenty five percent
(25%), between fifteen percent (15%) and twenty five percent (25%), between
eight percent (8%) and fifteen percent (15%), and less than eight percent (8%).
Contour lines based on USGS datum of 1988 with intervals of not more than five
feet (5') for properties with a general slope of greater than five percent
(5%), or intervals of not more than two feet (2') for properties with a general
slope of less than or equal to five percent (5%). Contour lines shall extend a
minimum of three hundred feet (300') beyond the proposed development boundary.
If a drainage channel borders the proposed development, the contour lines shall
extend the additional distance necessary to include the entire drainage
facility.
      4.   Vegetation: Analysis of existing vegetation of the site including,
but not limited to, dominant tree, plant, and ground cover species.
      5.   Sensitive Plant And Wildlife Species: Analysis of sensitive plant
and wildlife species of the site including, but not limited to, those species
listed in the Idaho conservation data center (state of Idaho department of fish
and game).
      6.   Historic Resources: Analysis of existing historic resources as
identified on the Ada County historic resources inventory.
      7.   Hazardous Areas: Location and identification of all potential
hazardous areas including, but not limited to, land that is unsuitable for
development because of flood threat, poorly drained areas, high groundwater,
steep slopes, rock formation, buried pipelines, or other similar conditions
likely to be encountered.
      8.   Impact On Natural Features: The applicant shall provide a written
statement explaining how the design of the plat protects or mitigates impacts
on the natural features of the site.
      9.   Map Features: The map shall show important features, including, but
not limited to, the following: outline of existing structures, watercourses,
wetlands, power lines, telephone lines, railroad lines, airport influence
areas, any existing easements, municipal boundaries, and section lines.
      10.   Other Supplemental Data: Other supplemental data may be required by
the county engineer including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Approximate location of any areas of fill.
         b.   The elevations of all corner points on the boundaries of the
proposed plat.
   E.   Proposed Plat: The commission and board shall apply the design
standards listed in article A of this chapter, the required improvements listed
in article B of this chapter, and the findings listed in section
8-6-5 of this chapter to review the proposed plat.
      1.   For sketch plats, the commission shall be the decision making body.
The commission's decision on the sketch plat shall be nonbinding on the
applicant and the county.
      2.   For preliminary plats, the commission shall forward a recommendation
to the board as set forth in section
8-7-2 of this title.
   F.   Approved Preliminary Plat: If approved by the board, the preliminary
plat for a phased subdivision shall include an approval period in which all
final plats must be completed.
   G.   Preliminary Plat Final Decision: A decision of the board on a
preliminary plat shall be final as to all matters set forth in said preliminary
plat. This decision may be appealed under the regulations of section
8-7-7 of this title.
   H.   Final Plat Approval: Following board approval of a preliminary plat,
the owner may cause the subdivision, or any phase thereof, to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared. The owner shall submit a final plat within twenty four
(24) months of the board's approval of the preliminary plat.
   I.   Recording Final Plat: The owner shall record a final plat and any
proposed covenants with the Ada County recorder within one year after the board
signs such final plat, otherwise, the approval shall become null and void. For
phased subdivisions, the board may approve final plats for the phases of the
subdivision in successive one year intervals.
   J.   Time Extension: The applicant or owner may apply for a time extension,
as set forth in section
8-7-6 of this title, if needed to extend the time allowed to approve the final
plat or phase of a final plat, if applicable.
   K.   Platted Lot: Any lot created through an approved subdivision
application and duly recorded plat shall thereafter be considered a platted
lot.
   L.   Planned Community Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Accord With Comprehensive Plan: Despite any other regulations to the
contrary, each preliminary plat within a planned community shall be in
accordance with the approved planned community comprehensive plan and the
applicable planned community overlay district.
      2.   Time Of Submission: A preliminary plat must be submitted to the
director no later than two (2) years from the date the planned community
implementation plan is approved.
      3.   Additional Application Requirements: In addition to other
requirements in this chapter, the following information shall be submitted with
every preliminary plat application in a PC base district, and shall be specific
to the area that the preliminary plat encompasses:
         a.   Land Use: A color keyed land use designation sheet.
         b.   Landscape: A landscape plan in compliance with the applicable
overlay district.
         c.   Urban Public Services: A written description of the urban public
services provided and how they comply with the urban public services standards
set forth in chapter 8 of this title.
         d.   Open Space: A written description of the types and sizes of
developed and natural open space, including a detailed description of the
ownership, operation, and maintenance structure.
         e.   Community Center: A written description of the community meeting
centers and/or recreation centers, if applicable.
         f.   Water Supply: A demonstration that existing and/or proposed water
rights are available within the entire boundary of the planned community as
identified on the official zoning map by supplying the following, as
applicable:
            (1)   For an existing or new private water company or water
district or water from a private source:
               (A)   A letter indicating that the planned community is
serviceable by said entity in accordance with the existing rules and
regulations as filed with the Idaho public utilities commission (IPUC) as
applicable, or a letter indicating that the planned community is serviceable
after obtaining approval from the IPUC, including a copy of the application
filed with the IPUC as applicable;
               (B)   A letter from the Idaho department of water resources
(IDWR) indicating that existing water rights, proposed changes to existing
water rights, and/or proposed new water rights are currently sufficient for the
proposed planned community or will be sufficient after obtaining approval from
the IDWR. A copy of the water rights documents and/or applications therefore
filed with IDWR shall be included with the application for preliminary plat;
and
            (2)   A description of how the landscaping within the boundaries of
the planned community will be irrigated, which shall include the source(s) of
the irrigation water and verification from IDWR that the existing and/or
proposed irrigation water rights are currently sufficient, or will be
sufficient after obtaining approval from IDWR. Copies of such water rights
documents or applications, therefore, shall be included with the preliminary
plat application.
         g.   Urban Public Services Construction: A demonstration that
sufficient assets and funds are available to construct necessary urban public
facilities required to meet urban public service standards in chapter 8 of this
title, if applicable, as shown in the implementation plan, including, but not
limited to:
            (1)   If the preliminary plat is being processed concurrently with
the implementation plan then the following information shall be submitted:
               (A)   To the extent privately financed, a written verification
of adequate owner and partner equity assets in possession required to secure
planned financing as set forth in the cash flow pro forma, including, but not
limited to, cash reserves, land, and other assets meeting standard lending
criteria of established lenders; and
               (B)   To the extent financed with public resources, a written
verification of adequate owner and partner equity assets in possession required
to secure tax exempt public funds and/or bonds identified as financing tools in
the cash flow pro forma, including, but not limited to, cash reserves, land,
and other assets meeting standard lending criteria of established public
lending entities; or
            (2)   If the preliminary plat application is not being processed
concurrently with the implementation plan, then the following material shall be
submitted:
               (A)   An updated cash flow pro forma consistent with
implementation plan financing plan requirements and reflecting changes in
market, economic, and/or financial changes since the planned community
implementation plan approval;
               (B)   To the extent privately financed, a written verification
of adequate owner and partner equity assets in possession required to secure
planned financing as set forth in the updated cash flow pro forma, including,
but not limited to, cash reserves, land, and other assets meeting standard
lending criteria of established lenders; and
               (C)   To the extent financed with public resources, a written
verification of adequate owner and partner equity assets in possession required
to secure tax exempt public funds and/or bonds identified as financing tools in
the updated cash flow pro forma, including, but not limited to, cash reserves,
land, and other assets meeting standard lending criteria of established public
lending entities; or
            (3)   If urban public facilities will be constructed and owned by a
municipality or a regulated public utility, then a certificate of service from
the municipality or regulated public utility shall be a prima facie
demonstration that sufficient assets and funds are available to construct the
relevant urban public facilities required to meet urban public service
standards in chapter 8 of this title, if applicable, as shown in the planned
community implementation plan; or
            (4)   If urban public facilities will be constructed and owned by a
taxing district, then compliance with the following requirements shall be a
prima facie demonstration that sufficient assets and funds are available to
construct the relevant urban public facilities required to meet urban public
service standards in chapter 8 of this title as shown in the planned community
implementation plan:
               (A)   The area encompassed by the planned community must be
included within the district boundaries;
               (B)   The urban public facility must be a programmed urban
public facility; and
               (C)   The district must provide a certificate of service for the
relevant area.
         h.   Urban Public Services Operation And Maintenance: A demonstration
that sufficient funds will be provided and set aside for funding the operation
and maintenance costs of urban public services (including capital renewal and
replacement costs) as specified in the implementation plan, including, but not
limited to:
            (1)   If the preliminary plat application is being processed
concurrently with the implementation plan then the following information shall
be submitted:
               (A)   A written description of the amounts needed to be placed
in reserve accounts for operations and maintenance reserves and verification of
the dedicated source of owner and/or partner assets sufficient for reserves
establishment. The amounts needed to be placed in reserves may take into
account the transition plan, the availability of other financial assurances,
the availability of sources of funding identified in the pro forma or some
combination of the above;
               (B)   A written assessment of the current valuation of
unimproved, unencumbered landholdings or other assets in hand that can or may
be utilized as collateral to secure funding separately for operations and
maintenance as identified in the cash flow pro forma; and
               (C)   If facilities operation will be contracted to an
independent service provider, a written identification of potential operator(s)
and a description of and verification of operator(s) qualifications and
financial standing; or
            (2)   If the preliminary plat application is not being processed
concurrently with the implementation plan then the following material shall be
submitted:
               (A)   An updated cash flow pro forma consistent with the planned
community implementation plan financing plan requirements and reflecting
changes in market, economic, and/or financial changes since the planned
community implementation plan approval and the following material;
               (B)   A written description of the amounts needed to be placed
in reserve accounts for operations and maintenance reserves and verification of
the dedicated source of owner and/or partner assets sufficient for reserves
establishment; the amounts to be placed in reserve may take into account the
transition plan, the availability of other assets and financial assurances, the
availability of sources of funding identified in the pro forma or a combination
thereof;
               (C)   A written assessment of the current valuation of
unimproved, unencumbered landholdings or other assets in hand that can or may
be utilized as collateral to secure funding separately for operations and
maintenance as identified in the updated cash flow pro forma; and
               (D)   If facilities' operation will be contracted to an
independent service provider, a written identification of potential operator(s)
and a description of and verification of operator(s) qualifications and
financial standing; or
            (3)   If urban public services will be provided by a municipality
or regulated public utility, then a certificate of service from the
municipality or regulated public utility shall be a prima facie demonstration
that sufficient assets and funds are available to provide the relevant urban
public service, and to operate and maintain the relevant urban public
facilities required to meet urban public service standards, for the service
being provided by the municipality or regulated public utility, in chapter 8 of
this title as shown in the planned community implementation plan; or
            (4)   If urban public services will be provided by a taxing
district, then compliance with the following three (3) requirements shall be a
prima facie demonstration that sufficient assets and funds are available to
provide the urban public service and to operate and maintain the relevant urban
public facilities required to meet urban public service standards, for the
service being provided by the taxing district as shown in the planned community
implementation plan:
               (A)   The area encompassed by the planned community must be
included within the district boundaries;
               (B)   The urban public service must be a programmed urban public
service; and
               (C)   The district must provide a certificate of service for the
relevant area.
         i.   Transportation: The previously approved traffic impact study
shall be updated with each preliminary plat based upon the best available data
and shall be submitted to ITD and ACHD thirty (30) days prior to submission of
the preliminary plat to the director. An updated comprehensive transportation
demand management program may be required.
      4.   Financing Verification Application: Prior to grading, filling,
clearing, excavation or construction of any kind associated with an approved
preliminary plat, including that required for infrastructure improvements, an
application for financing verification shall be approved by the director as
follows:
         a.   An application and fees as set forth in chapter 7 of this title
shall be submitted to the director on forms provided by the development
services department and shall include the following material:
            (1)   A final cash flow pro forma, consistent with final
verification of sufficient project financing required herein, for urban public
services;
            (2)   A demonstration that sufficient assets, funds and financing
are secured for construction of the urban public facilities, including, if
applicable, that the planned community owner has paid or will pay pursuant to
an approved transition plan, its proportionate share (based on a minimum
density of 3 dwelling units per acre within the applicable response time area)
of any unfunded capital improvement costs required to construct any required
new municipal or district facilities;
            (3)   A demonstration that sufficient assets, funds and financing
are secured or are identified in the approved pro forma for operation and
maintenance costs of urban public services (including capital renewal and
replacement costs of necessary urban public facilities), including, if
applicable, that the planned community owner has received approval on a
petition to prepay taxes per Idaho Code section 63-1602 as necessary to cover
any temporary shortfall caused by the necessity for the applicable municipality
or district to provide applicable urban public services at urban public service
levels until tax revenue collection covers the cost of providing services
including amortizing the prepayment. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-
2003; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008; amd. Ord. 715, 12-3-2008; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-
2010; amd. Ord. 763, 10-13-2010; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010)
8-6-4: PLAT SPECIFICATIONS:
8-6-4-1: SKETCH PLAT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Sketch plats shall be prepared in pen or pencil drawn to a convenient
scale of not more than one hundred feet (100') to an inch and shall show the
following information:
      1.   Name:
         a.   Name of subdivision in accord with the requirements of Idaho Code
section 50-1307.
         b.   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen.
      2.   Ownership:
         a.   Name and address of legal owner or agent of property, and
citation of last instrument conveying title to each property involved in the
proposed subdivision, giving grantor, grantee, date, and land records reference
(deed book and page).
         b.   Citation of any existing legal rights of way or easements
affecting the property.
         c.   Existing covenants on the property, if any.
         d.   Name and address of the professional person(s) responsible for
subdivision design, for the design of public improvements, and for surveys.
      3.   Description: Location of property by government lot, section,
township, range, county, graphic scale, north arrow, and date.
         a.   Location of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds,
railroad rights of way, and watercourses; location, width, and names of all
existing or platted streets or other public ways within or immediately adjacent
to the tract; names of neighboring property owners from the latest assessment
rolls within three hundred feet (300') of any perimeter boundary of the
subdivision.
         b.   Location, sizes, elevation, and slopes of existing sewers, water
mains, culverts, irrigation works, and other underground structures within the
tract and immediately adjacent thereto; existing permanent structures and
utility poles on or immediately adjacent to the site and utility rights of way.
         c.   Approximate topography, at the same scale as the sketch plat.
         d.   The approximate location and widths of proposed streets.
         e.   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing water supply
and sanitary sewage systems, or alternative means of providing water supply and
sanitary waste treatment and disposal; preliminary provisions for collecting
and discharging surface water drainage.
         f.   The approximate location, dimensions, and areas of all proposed
lots and existing lots or parcels.
         g.   The approximate location, dimensions, and area of all lots
proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use, or for
the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision.
         h.   Whenever the sketch plat covers only a part of an owner's
contiguous holdings, the owner shall submit, at a scale of not more than two
hundred feet (200') to an inch, a sketch in pen or pencil of the proposed
subdivision area, together with its proposed street system, and an indication
of the proposed future street system, and an indication of the probable future
street and drainage system of the remaining portion of the tract.
         i.   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development of
the surrounding area, the sketch plat shall show all school and improvement
district lines and their designation. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-6-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Drawing Specifications: All mapped information shall be prepared in a
neat and legible manner and drawn to a scale of not more than one hundred feet
(100') to the inch. A smaller scale or different size may be used for large
developments with prior written approval from the director. Limits of the
drawing shall include an area not less than three hundred feet (300') beyond
boundaries of the proposed development. All maps shall show:
      1.   The subdivision boundary that is based on an actual field survey
including the stamp of the licensed professional land surveyor certifying and
stamping the boundary survey of the plan. Boundary problems shall be resolved
and nonbuildable remnant properties are prohibited. Certification and stamping
of the plan by the professional land surveyor is intended to pertain only to
the boundary survey.
      2.   The name of the owner.
      3.   The name of the person or firm responsible for the drawing.
      4.   The name of the proposed subdivision in accord with Idaho Code
section 50-1307.
      5.   The date, graphic scale, true north arrow, vicinity map, section,
township, and range.
      6.   Ties to all controlling corners.
      7.   The names of neighboring subdivisions as listed in the assessor's
files.
      8.   The names of owners of neighboring properties as listed in the
assessor's files, and the boundaries of all neighboring properties.
      9.   The name, location, width, direction of slope, centerline and right
of way of all existing and proposed public streets and private roads.
      10.   The proposed off site improvements pertaining to streets, water
supply, sanitary sewer systems, storm water systems, fire protection
facilities, and proposed utilities.
      11.   The lot layout with lot and block numbers, lot dimensions, and lot
area in square feet.
      12.   The minimum setbacks from the front, the side, and the rear
property lines.
      13.   Areas of special use, e.g., parks and schools, shall be
appropriately labeled.
   B.   Separation Of Information: The director may require separation of
information to a separate drawing(s) to assist in delineation of specific
information. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-
9-2003)
8-6-4-3: FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS:
The final plat shall be prepared as provided by, and include the items required
by, Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13 and related state law, and the following
additional requirements:
   A.   The final plat drawing page(s) and signature page shall be drawn on
eighteen inch by twenty seven inch (18" x 27") sheets. No information shall be
any closer to the edge of any sheet than three and one-half inches (31/2") at
the left edge and one-half inch (1/2") on all other edges. The letters,
numbers, and notes shall be of such size and scale to clearly show on microfilm
copies, reproducible copies, and prints of the recorded documents.
   B.   The drawing page(s) shall show exterior boundary and property lines,
right of way lines, streets, street islands, existing and new easements, all
accurately dimensioned with bearings to the nearest one second and distances to
the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of a foot. The dimensions shall provide a
minimum lot and boundary survey closure of one to ten thousand (1:10,000). The
drawing page(s) and owner's certificate shall show or contain all related curve
data including radius, length, central angle, long chord, and long chord
bearing.
   C.   Permanent monuments, magnetically detectable, marked with the license
number of the surveyor, shall be set for all the following:
      1.   All lot corners and exterior boundary corners.
      2.   Street centerline angle points, point of curvatures (PCs), point of
tangencies (PTs), intersecting street centerlines, and places where street
centerline changes directions.
      3.   Street islands, radius points for cul-de-sacs, and lot controlling
corners that control the location of the boundary.
   D.   In places that are impossible or impractical to set the monument, a
witness corner or reference monument shall be set and dimensioned accordingly.
Such monument shall be of the same size and marking required for the monument
it is replacing. A witness corner monument shall be set on the lot line or
property line. A reference monument shall be set with a bearing and distance
tie to the actual corner.
   E.   All monuments found, existing or accepted and used in the survey shall
be marked with the license number of the surveyor.
   F.   Digital format as may be required by the county surveyor.
   G.   The plat shall show:
      1.   Primary Control Points: At least two (2) primary control points,
officially recognized by the county surveyor and ties to such control points.
Primary control points must be public land survey corners or officially
recognized corners. Corner perpetuation and filing recording instrument numbers
shall be shown.
      2.   Approved Street Names: The county engineer shall approve all street
names.
      3.   Easements: Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easements.
      4.   Monuments: Location, description, and size of monuments that are
found.
      5.   Title, Subdivision Name, Description And Date: Title, including
subdivision name in accord with Idaho Code section 50-1307, and general
location description and date.
      6.   Owner's Certificate: Owner's certificate containing a statement of
reservation of easements and private roads. Private roads may be shown as a lot
or an easement.
      7.   Right Of Way Width: The right of way width from centerline of each
street or other right of way.
      8.   Abutting Subdivisions: Name and location of abutting subdivisions.
All other abutting properties shall be shown as "unplatted".
   H.   The following certificates and approvals shall appear on the final
plat:
      1.   Owner's certificate.
      2.   Licensed land surveyor's certificate.
      3.   Ada County highway district (if applicable).
      4.   Central district health.
      5.   City engineer (if applicable).
      6.   City approval certificate (if applicable).
      7.   County surveyor's certificate.
      8.   Acceptance and approval of the board. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-6-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   Preliminary Plat:
      1.   The design conforms to the standards established in article A of
this chapter;
      2.   The design complies with the required improvements established in
article B of this chapter;
      3.   If applicable, the proposed subdivision complies with the standards
of an applicable overlay district as set forth in chapter 3 of this title;
      4.   The design conforms to the topography and natural landscape features
and shows consideration for the location and function of land uses and
structures to achieve this purpose;
      5.   The development would not cause undue damage, hazard, or nuisance to
persons or property in the vicinity;
      6.   The internal street system is designed for the efficient and safe
flow of vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians without having a disruptive
influence upon the activities and functions contained within the proposed
subdivision, nor placing an undue burden upon existing transportation and other
public services in the surrounding area;
      7.   Community facilities such as parks, recreational, and dedicated open
space areas are functionally related to all dwelling units and are easily
accessible via pedestrian and/or bicycle pathways;
      8.   The proposal complies with the dimension standards set forth in this
title for the applicable zoning district;
      9.   The overall plan is in conformance with the applicable comprehensive
plan(s), future acquisition maps, area of city impact ordinances including
applicable subdivision regulations, and other pertinent ordinances; and
      10.   In addition to the findings required above, the board shall make
the following findings for preliminary plats located in a PC base district:
         a.   The preliminary plat is in conformance with the approved planned
community implementation plan;
         b.   Urban public services and urban public facilities are adequately
provided according to the standards set forth in chapter 8 of this title,
including the transition plan, if any; and
         c.   Sufficient funds will be available to construct the urban public
facilities and to provide urban public services.
   B.   Final Plat:
      1.   The final plat is in substantial conformance with the preliminary
plat;
      2.   All conditions of the approved preliminary plat have been met; and
      3.   For a planned community, the area encompassed by the final plat,
together with any previously approved plats, is a self- supporting unit.
   C.   Required Findings; Financing Verification Application:
      1.   Sufficient assets, funds and financing are secured for construction
of urban public facilities to support the area encompassed by the preliminary
plat, including, if applicable, that the planned community owner has paid or
will pay pursuant to an approved transition plan, its proportionate share
(based on a minimum density of 3 dwelling units per acre within the applicable
response time area) of any unfunded capital improvement costs required to
construct any required new municipal or district facilities; and
      2.   Sufficient assets, funds and financing are secured or are identified
in the approved pro forma for operation and maintenance costs of urban public
services (including capital renewal and replacement costs of necessary urban
public facilities) to support the area encompassed by the preliminary plat,
including, if applicable, that the planned community owner has received
approval on a petition to prepay taxes per Idaho Code section 63-1602 as
necessary to cover any temporary shortfall caused by the necessity for the
applicable municipality or district to provide applicable urban public services
at urban public service levels until tax revenue collection covers the cost of
providing services including amortizing the prepayment. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000;
amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-2010)
8-6-6: VACATION, TOTAL OR PARTIAL, OF A RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLAT:
An applicant or owner may petition the board for a total or partial vacation of
a recorded subdivision plat, including easements. Vacation shall be processed
in accord with the regulations set forth in Idaho Code section 50-1306A and
recorded in accord with the regulations set forth in Idaho Code section 50-
1324. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE A. DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-6A-1: General
8-6A-2: Blocks
8-6A-3: Lots
8-6A-4: Access
8-6A-5: Alleys
8-6A-6: Easements
8-6A-7: Watercourses
8-6A-8: Flood Hazard Overlay District
8-6A-1: GENERAL:
   A.   These standards shall be followed in all subdivisions regulated by this
title. In addition to these standards, all subdivisions shall meet the design
standards of the applicable zoning district.
   B.   Any proposed subdivision in areas of the county where topographical
slopes are greater than fifteen percent (15%) or where adverse conditions
associated with slope stability, erosion, or sedimentation are present, as
determined by the county engineer, shall conform with the additional hillside
regulations set forth in this title.
   C.   Adequate means for eliminating unsuitable conditions must be approved
by the county engineer in order to develop property that has been designated in
the applicable comprehensive plan, in the natural features analysis, or
elsewhere, as being unsuitable for development because of flood threat, poorly
drained areas, high groundwater, steep slopes, rock formation, buried
pipelines, or other similar conditions likely to be encountered.
   D.   The limits of the subdivision shall encompass the full extent of the
owner's lot or "contiguous parcels", as herein defined.
   E.   The decision making body may require modifications where, in its
opinion, site planning has not sufficiently addressed the existing natural
features. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 768, 1-12-2011)
8-6A-2: BLOCKS:
   A.   The length, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated including the base district requirements as to
property sizes and dimensions.
      2.   Avoiding double front lots. If unavoidable, one of the frontages
shall be restricted from access.
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic. The number of intersecting streets with arterials of all
classes shall be held to a minimum.
      4.   The limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Residential block lengths should be between four hundred feet (400')
and six hundred feet (600').
   C.   Pedestrian access rights of way not less than ten feet (10') wide, may
be required for walkways through or across a block when deemed desirable to
provide circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation, and other community facilities. Said access right of way shall
be a separate platted lot. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-6A-3: LOTS:
   A.   The property size, width, depth, shape, and orientation, and the
minimum structure setback lines shall be appropriate for the location of the
subdivision and for the type of development and use contemplated.
   B.   The minimum dimensional standards for all lots shall be in accord with
the applicable base district. Corner lots in residential zoning districts shall
be increased five percent (5%) above the minimum property size of the
applicable base district to permit appropriate front and street side setbacks.
   C.   For a distance of fifty feet (50'), side property lines originating at
the front of the lot shall be within twenty degrees (20°) of right angles or
radial to the street providing access.
   D.   Through lots shall be avoided except to separate developments from
arterial streets or to overcome topographic restrictions. A screening easement
or common area lot having a minimum width of ten feet (10') shall be provided
along the arterial streets. If unavoidable, one of the frontages shall be
restricted from access.
   E.   Frontage for lots on a cul-de-sac turnaround shall be measured fifty
feet (50') back from the front property line along an arc parallel to the right
of way of the cul-de-sac. See section
8-1A-2, figure 11 of this title.
   F.   Frontage for lots on a knuckle shall be measured fifty feet (50') back
from the front property line along the arc parallel to the right of way of the
knuckle. See section
8-1A-2, figure 11 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 591, 7-27-
2005)
8-6A-4: ACCESS:
   A.   All lots shall have access that complies with the regulations of
section
8-4A-3 of this title. The arrangement, character, extent, and location of all
streets shall conform to the comprehensive plan or portions thereof, and shall
be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, topographic
conditions, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the
property to be served by such streets. All required public street improvements
and additional design standards are subject to the jurisdiction of the Ada
County highway district.
   B.   Where a subdivision borders a railroad right of way or limited access
highway right of way, a street approximately parallel to such right of way, at
a distance suitable for appropriate use of the intervening property may be
required.
   C.   Street layout shall be planned to facilitate future development of
abutting areas and the entire neighborhood, and shall provide for adequate
access to abutting lands. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-6A-5: ALLEYS:
Alleys may be provided. If alleys are provided, alleys shall comply with ACHD
standards and be public. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-6A-6: EASEMENTS:
   A.   There shall be easements provided for utilities, drainage, and
irrigation abutting to all public street right of way and subdivision
boundaries, and where considered necessary, centered on the interior property
lines. Said easements shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10').
   B.   Where a subdivision is transversed by a watercourse, appropriate
easements shall be provided. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-6A-7: WATERCOURSES:
   A.   There shall be a minimum structural setback of thirty feet (30') from
the normal high water line of all watercourses, whether covered or uncovered.
For open watercourses, normal high water line shall be as determined by a
licensed surveyor or engineer.
   B.   Only when required by the board shall watercourses within an urban
district be covered or fenced.
      1.   Proposed fences within the southwest planning area shall comply with
the regulations of subsection 8-3C-3C of this title.
      2.   Proposed fences in a designated flood hazard area shall comply with
the regulations of chapter 3, article F of this title.
      3.   Unless otherwise specified by this title, fences shall be a six foot
(6') barrier that meets the barrier requirements for swimming pools in the Ada
County building code as set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
      4.   Proposed covers or fences involving an irrigation distribution
system shall have the prior approval of the affected irrigation district. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000)
8-6A-8: FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY DISTRICT:
All proposed subdivisions in a flood hazard overlay district shall comply with
the requirements of section
8-3F-7 of this title and the standards in section
8-3F-8 of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
ARTICLE B. REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
8-6B-1: Owner's Responsibility
8-6B-2: Monument Requirements
8-6B-3: Streets And Other Improvements
8-6B-4: Surety And Surety Agreement
8-6B-1: OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
The owner is responsible to complete the improvements required by this article
and any additional improvements that may be required as a condition of
approval. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-6B-2: MONUMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The owner shall comply with the requirements of Idaho Code sections 50-1302,
50-1303, 54-1227, and 55-1608. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 681, 3-12-2008)
8-6B-3: STREETS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS:
Prior to signing of any final plat the following requirements shall be
satisfied as applicable:
   A.   Public streets shall be accepted by the Ada County highway district.
   B.   Approved private roads shall be completed in accord with requirements
of chapter 4, article D of this title.
   C.   All new developments shall have adequate sewage facilities as provided
for in section
8-4A-22 of this title or the plat shall have a sanitary restriction as approved
by the appropriate health authority.
   D.   Stormwater facilities and drainage improvements shall be constructed by
the applicant or owner and approved by the county engineer.
   E.   Streetlights shall comply with the lighting regulations set forth in
chapter 4, article H of this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-
2010)
8-6B-4: SURETY AND SURETY AGREEMENT:
In lieu of completion of the improvements listed in subsections 8-6B-3A, B, D
and E of this article, the owner may deposit a surety and surety agreement for
completion of such improvements with the director on forms provided by the
development services department and as specified in chapter 4, article K of
this title. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 699, 6-18-2008)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8-7-1: Zoning Certificates
8-7-2: Jurisdiction And Authority
8-7-3: Zoning Ordinance Amendments
8-7-4: Variances
8-7-5: Expansion Or Extension Of A Nonconforming Use Or Structure
8-7-6: Time Extensions Of An Approved Development Application
8-7-7: Appeals
8-7-8: Penalties
8-7-1: ZONING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   No construction or alteration shall commence until the director has
issued a zoning certificate. If no structures are involved, no use shall
commence until the director has issued a zoning certificate.
   B.   No zoning certificate shall be issued for any use on a property in
violation of this title or on a property that contains structures or uses in
violation of this title. Any zoning certificate secured in violation of a state
or federal law shall be invalid.
   C.   The zoning certificate shall be invalid upon violation of any
regulations of this title on the subject property.
   D.   Any application that requires issuance of a zoning certificate as a
condition of approval shall be deemed complete with the issuance of the zoning
certificate. This provision shall apply to prior approved applications with
issued zoning certificates.
   E.   Zoning certificates issued in conjunction with a change of use that are
not associated with a building permit shall expire if the new use has not
commenced within one year of the date of issuance of the zoning certificate.
   F.   The zoning certificate may require inspections and approvals specified
in the approval of the application.
   G.   If the director determines the conditions of the zoning certificate
have been violated, he or she may require that all further work stop on a
project until the violation has been remedied. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord.
490, 4-9-2003)
8-7-2: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Director Of Development Services: It shall be the duty of the director,
or his or her authorized agent, to administer the regulations of this title.
      1.   The director shall be responsible for the enforcement and
administration of this title including, but not limited to, those in section
8-1-5 of this title and the following:
         a.   The director shall conduct investigations of structures and use
of property as are necessary to determine compliance with the regulations of
this title;
         b.   Order the abatement of violations of the zoning ordinance and aid
in prosecuting such violations;
         c.   Withhold any zoning certificates on any property where structures
or uses are in violation of the zoning ordinance; and
         d.   Enforce penalties for violations as set forth in section
8-7-8 of this chapter.
      2.   The director shall provide information to the public on planning,
zoning, building, and engineering matters.
      3.   The director shall have authority to receive and examine
applications including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Enter upon any property (with the consent of the owner) to: 1)
make examinations and surveys, and 2) place and maintain necessary monuments
and marks;
         b.   Maintain records of all materials and correspondence related to
land use applications;
         c.   Transmit to outside agencies and provide written notice to
surrounding property owners on all commission and board hearings;
         d.   Maintain records of the commission and board hearings and actions
thereon;
         e.   Transmit to the commission or board all applications, petitions,
and other communications upon which the commission or board is required to act;
         f.   Issue zoning certificates; and
         g.   Receive applications as set forth in article A of this chapter.
      4.   The director shall act on the following applications that do not
require transmittal to outside agencies or notice to surrounding property
owners:
         Accessory use approval, zoning certificate required (chapter 5,
article A of this title).
         Farm development right (section
8-2A-5 of this title).
         Financing verification application (subsection
8-6-3L of this title).
         Floodplain permit (chapter 3, article F of this title).
         Landscape and screening plan (chapter 4, article F of this title).
         Lighting plan (chapter 4, article H of this title).
         Modification or expansion to an approved conditional use (section
8-5B-3 of this title).
         Modification or expansion to an approved master site plan (section
8-4E-3 of this title).
         Onetime division of a property (chapter 4, article B of this title).
         Planned community landscape plan (subsection
8-6-3L of this title).
         Planned community periodic review.
         Property boundary adjustment (chapter 4, article C of this title).
         Sign plan (chapter 4, article I of this title).
         Temporary use approval, zoning certificate required (chapter 4,
article L of this title).
         Time extension, administrative (subsection
8-7-6A2 of this chapter).
         Zoning certificate (section
8-7-1 of this chapter).
      5.   The director shall transmit to outside agencies, provide written
notice to surrounding property owners, and act on the following applications:
         Accessory use approval, zoning certificate and administrative approval
required (chapter 5, article A of this title).
         Expansion or extension of nonconforming use or structure (section
8-7-5 of this chapter).
         Joint applications with items listed in subsection A4 of this section.
         Master site plan (chapter 4, article E of this title).
         Private road (chapter 4, article D of this title).
         Temporary use approval, zoning certificate and administrative approval
required (chapter 4, article L of this title).
   B.   Prosecuting Attorney: The prosecuting attorney of Ada County shall have
the authority to enforce this title as set forth in Idaho Code and this code.
   C.   Sheriff: The Ada County sheriff, and his or her authorized
representatives, shall have the authority to enforce this title as set forth in
Idaho Code and this code.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   The commission shall have jurisdiction and authority to:
         a.   Provide for citizen meetings, hearings, surveys, or other methods
to obtain advice on the planning process, comprehensive plan, and
implementation;
         b.   Conduct informational meetings and consult with public officials
and agencies, public utility companies, and civic, educational, professional,
or other organizations;
         c.   Promote a public interest in and understanding of the
commission's activities;
         d.   Make recommendations to the board concerning the comprehensive
plan, planning process, or implementation of the comprehensive plan;
         e.   Enter upon any property (with the consent of the owner) to: 1)
make examinations and surveys, and 2) place and maintain necessary monuments
and marks; and
         f.   Hear applications under the authority of the hearings examiner
(see subsection F of this section) if a hearings examiner has not been
appointed by the board. Final plats reviewed by the commission shall be heard
at an open meeting of the commission.
      2.   The commission shall have the authority to act on the following
applications, all of which require transmittals to agencies, notice to the
public, and a public hearing before the commission:
         Conditional use (chapter 5, article B of this title).
         Joint applications with items listed in subsections A4 and/or A5 of
this section.
         Subdivision, sketch plat (chapter 6 of this title).
      3.   The commission shall have the authority to make a recommendation to
the board on the following applications or petitions, all of which shall
require transmittals to agencies and cities, notice to the public, and a public
hearing before the commission:
         Amendment to an area of city impact agreement (title 9 of this code).
         Amendment to the comprehensive plan (text or map) (subsection
8-7B-1A of this chapter).
         Amendment to the zoning ordinance (text or map) (section
8-7-3 of this chapter).
         Joint applications with items listed in subsections A4, A5, and/or D2
of this section.
         Planned community implementation plan (chapter 8 of this title).
         Subdivision, preliminary plat (chapter 6 of this title).
   E.   Board Of County Commissioners:
      1.   The board shall have the authority to act on the following
agreements, applications and petitions, all of which shall require a
recommendation from the commission, transmittals to agencies and cities, notice
to the public, and public hearing:
         Amendment to an area of city impact agreement (title 9 of this code).
         Amendment to the comprehensive plan (text or map) (subsection
8-7B-1A of this chapter).
         Amendment to the zoning ordinance (text or map) (section
8-7-3 of this chapter).
         Development agreement (article C of this chapter).
         Joint applications with items listed in subsections A4, A5, D2, and/or
D3 of this section.
         Planned community implementation plan (chapter 8 of this title).
         Subdivision, preliminary plat (chapter 6 of this title).
      2.   The board shall have the authority to act on the following
applications, all of which require transmittals to agencies, notice to the
public, and a public hearing by the board:
         Appeal (section
8-7-7 of this chapter).
         Joint applications with items listed in subsections A4, A5, D2, D3,
and/or E1 of this section.
         Time extension (subsections
8-7-6A3 and A4 of this chapter).
         Variance (section
8-7-4 of this chapter).
      3.   The board shall have the authority to act on the following
applications or petitions at an open meeting of the board:
         Subdivision, final plat (chapter 6 of this title).
      4.   The board shall have the authority to appoint a hearings examiner,
in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6520.
   F.   Hearings Examiner:
      1.   The hearings examiner shall have the authority to act on the
following applications, all of which require transmittals to agencies, notice
to the public, and a public hearing before the hearings examiner:
         Subdivision, final plat (chapter 6 of this title). (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 709, 10-8-
2008; amd. Ord. 730, 7-7-2009; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 766, 12-8-
2010; amd. Ord. 808, 6-5-2013)
8-7-3: ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Process:
      1.   Zoning Ordinance Amendment Initiated By Board: The board may propose
to amend this title following notice and public hearing procedures in article A
of this chapter.
      2.   Zoning Ordinance Amendment Initiated By Property Owner (Including
Planned Unit Developments And Planned Community Text Amendments): An
application and fees, as set forth in article A of this chapter, shall be
submitted to the director on forms provided by the development services
department.
      3.   Application; Review: The board shall apply the standards listed in
subsection B of this section and the findings listed in subsection C of this
section to review the zoning ordinance amendment.
      4.   Approval; Reversal Of Action: If the board approves a zoning
ordinance map amendment pursuant to a request from a property owner, the board
shall not subsequently reverse its action or otherwise change the zoning
classification as set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6511(d) or as allowed
under a development agreement.
   B.   Standards: For zoning ordinance map amendments, the subject property
shall meet the minimum dimensional standards of the proposed base district.
   C.   Required Findings: In order to grant a map or text amendment to the
zoning ordinance, the following findings must be made:
      1.   The zoning ordinance amendment is in accordance with the applicable
comprehensive plan;
      2.   The zoning ordinance amendment complies with the regulations
outlined for the proposed base district, specifically the purpose statement;
      3.   The zoning ordinance amendment shall not be materially detrimental
to the public health, safety, and welfare;
      4.   The zoning ordinance amendment shall not result in demonstrable
adverse impacts upon the delivery of services by any political subdivision
providing public services within the planning jurisdiction including, but not
limited to, school districts; and
      5.   For zoning ordinance text amendments within a planned community (PC)
base district, the amendment complies with the planned community implementation
plan. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-7-4: VARIANCES:
Applications for floodplain variance shall comply with the regulations of
section
8-3F-11 of this title and are not subject to the regulations of this section.
   A.   Process:
      1.   An application and fees, as set forth in article A of this chapter,
shall be submitted to the director on forms provided by the development
services department.
      2.   The board shall apply the standard listed in subsection B of this
section and the findings listed in subsection C of this section to review the
variance.
   B.   Standard: The variance shall comply with Idaho Code section 67-6516.
   C.   Required Findings: In order to grant a variance, the board shall make
the following findings:
      1.   The variance shall not grant a right or special privilege that is
not otherwise allowed in the base district;
      2.   The variance relieves an undue hardship due to characteristics of
the site; and
      3.   The variance shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety,
and welfare. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-7-5: EXPANSION OR EXTENSION OF A NONCONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE:
   A.   Process:
      1.   An application and fees, as set forth in article A of this chapter,
shall be submitted to the director on forms provided by the development
services department.
      2.   The director shall apply the standard listed in subsection B of this
section and the findings listed in subsection C of this section to review the
expansion or extension of a nonconforming use or structure.
   B.   Standard: The use or structure is nonconforming.
   C.   Required Findings: In order to grant an expansion or extension of a
nonconforming use or structure, the director shall make the following findings:
      1.   Allowing the expansion or extension of the nonconforming use or
structure shall not conflict with the applicable comprehensive plan; and
      2.   The expansion or extension of the nonconforming use or structure
shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 389,
6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
8-7-6: TIME EXTENSIONS OF AN APPROVED DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION:
   A.   Process:
      1.   An application and fees, as set forth in article A of this chapter,
shall be submitted to the director on forms provided by the development
services department.
         a.   The application shall include a letter from the applicant or
owner describing the reasons for the time extension request. Such reasons may
include, but are not limited to: 1) current and/or forecasted economic
conditions that make it impracticable to finish the development within the time
allotted; or 2) delays that are beyond the control of the applicant or owner
that make it impracticable to meet the conditions of approval and/or
development requirements within the time allotted.
         b.   The application shall be filed prior to the expiration date of
the development approval or previously granted time extension.
         c.   A development application shall only be eligible to apply for and
receive three (3) time extensions (1 administratively granted and 2 granted by
the board). Any development application already subject to an administratively
granted time extension that has not yet expired is entitled only to apply for a
time extension granted by the board.
      2.   The first application for a time extension shall be administrative.
An administratively granted time extension shall be valid for one year from the
date of the original expiration date of the development application.
      3.   The second application for a time extension shall require a public
hearing in front of the board. The public hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the notice and hearing procedures provided under Idaho Code
section 67-6509. The board may grant a time extension for any period of time up
to but not to exceed two (2) years from the date of the expiration of the
administratively granted time extension. The board in granting the time
extension may, in its discretion, amend, delete, and/or add conditions of
approval/development requirements as necessary.
      4.   The third application for a time extension shall require a public
hearing in front of the board. The public hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the notice and hearing procedures provided under Idaho Code
section 67-6509. The board may grant a time extension for any period of time up
to but not to exceed two (2) years from the date of the expiration of the
second board time extension. The board in granting the time extension may, in
its discretion, amend, delete, and/or add conditions of approval/development
requirements as necessary.
      5.   Appeals of administratively or board granted time extensions shall
toll the time period of the time extension until final resolution of such
appeal.
   B.   Findings: In order to grant a time extension the director or board
shall make the following findings:
      1.   The application was submitted in a timely manner; and
      2.   The applicant has submitted reasons that justify the granting of the
time extension. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 730, 7-7-2009; amd. Ord. 808,
6-5-2013)
8-7-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Application: Any decision or action may be appealed as set forth in
this chapter. The appellant shall be an affected person as defined in Idaho
Code section 67-6521(1)(a).
      1.   A person aggrieved by a final decision or action within the
jurisdiction and authority of the director (see subsection
8-7-2A of this chapter), the hearings examiner (see subsection
8-7-2F of this chapter), or the commission (see subsection
8-7-2D of this chapter) may appeal to the board.
      2.   A person aggrieved by a final decision or action of the board may
seek judicial review as provided by Idaho Code sections 67-6521(d) and 67-6535,
as they may be amended from time to time, and this code.
   B.   Appeal Procedures:
      1.   Appeals of written decisions shall be filed with the director within
fifteen (15) days after the date of the written decision, or it shall not be
accepted. An application and fees, as set forth in article A of this chapter,
shall be submitted to the director on forms provided by the development
services department.
      2.   The director shall schedule and the board shall hold a public
hearing and make a decision pursuant to the procedures as set forth in section
8-7A-8 of this chapter.
      3.   At the public hearing, the board shall consider the order,
requirement, permit, decision, or determination of the commission, and any
attached conditions thereto. The board shall also consider any additional
evidence that may be offered by the public, applicant, director, and/or
commission.
      4.   The board may affirm, reverse, modify, in whole or in part the
order, requirement, permit, decision, or determination appealed from, or make
or substitute any additional conditions that in its deliberations it may find
warranted. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 843, 6-3-
2015)
8-7-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Each violation of these regulations shall be a
misdemeanor. Each day that work continues after notification of violation shall
constitute a separate offense, and each violation shall be punishable as
provided in Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended
and/or retitled.
   B.   Remedies: In the event any action is taken or any construction or use
commenced in violation of the regulations of this title, the director, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent such unlawful action or construction to restrain, correct, or abate
such violation, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or
about such premises.
   C.   Public Hearing: In the event that noncompliance with the conditions of
approval is found and is continuing after due notice to the applicant, the
director shall have the authority to order a public hearing before the deciding
body (see subsection
8-7-2D, E or F of this chapter), in conformance with sections
8-7A-4 and
8-7A-5 of this chapter. At the public hearing, the deciding body shall have the
authority to affirm, reverse, modify, in whole or in part, the approval, or
make or substitute any additional conditions that in its deliberations it may
find warranted. In order to take action except to affirm the approval, the
deciding body must find there is a violation of the conditions of approval of
an application within the authority of the deciding body and one or more of the
following:
      1.   The violation has caused or will cause detriment to the public
health, safety or welfare.
      2.   The violation has created or will create undue adverse impact on
surrounding properties.
      3.   The violation has caused or will cause the approved use to be served
by inadequate public or private facilities.
      4.   The violation has impeded or will impede the normal development of
surrounding property. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord.
603, 1-30-2006)
ARTICLE A. APPLICATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
8-7A-1: Purpose
8-7A-2: Application Requirements And Fees
8-7A-3: Neighborhood Meetings
8-7A-4: Notice To Agencies And Political Subdivisions
8-7A-5: Notice To Public
8-7A-6: Decision By The Director
8-7A-7: Decision By The Commission
8-7A-8: Decision By The Board
8-7A-9: Decision By The Hearings Examiner
8-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide procedures for all zoning
applications covered by this title and petitions to amend the comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-7A-2: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND FEES:
   A.   Application Requirements: All persons making application for permits
and other matters herein referred to shall be required to submit to the
director an application on forms provided by the development services
department, all information listed as required on those forms, and an
application fee as set forth in subsection E of this section.
   B.   Preapplication Conference(s):
      1.   The purpose of the preapplication conference is to review the
proposed application(s), to discuss the procedures and requirements of this
title, and to review the associated application material.
      2.   Applicants shall participate in a minimum of one preapplication
conference with the director prior to submission of applications for variances
to flood insurance program standards, preliminary plats, comprehensive plan
amendments, variances, conditional uses, zoning ordinance text amendments, and
zoning ordinance map amendments.
      3.   The director may require additional preapplication conferences and
may require preapplication conferences for applications not listed above. It
may be necessary for the Ada County engineer, surveyor or building official to
attend the preapplication conference(s).
   C.   Date Of Application Submission: The date of application submission
shall be the date the applicant submits to the development services department
the appropriate application form, the appropriate fees, and all information
listed as required on the application form and applicable checklist(s).
   D.   Hearings: A public hearing, if required, shall be held no later than
ninety (90) days after the date of application submission, as provided in
subsection C of this section, excluding planned community applications, which
shall be held no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
application submission.
   E.   Fees: The board shall, by resolution, establish fees for all zoning
applications, agreements, reviews, conferences, or petitions authorized by this
title, zoning certificates, and comprehensive plan amendment. In accordance
with the direction on the applicable application form(s) and associated
checklist(s), applicants shall submit any required deposit or fee at time of
application submission. Any remaining fee shall be paid prior to final
decision. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 588, 7-13-2005; amd. Ord. 659, 3-28-
2007; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-7A-3: NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS:
   A.   Applicants shall conduct a neighborhood meeting for comprehensive plan
amendments, variances, conditional uses, zoning ordinance map amendments,
expansions or extensions of nonconforming uses, and subdivisions.
   B.   It shall be the sole duty of the applicant to provide written notice to
all property owners or purchasers of record owning property within the radius
required in subsection
8-7A-5C of this article of the exterior boundary of the application property
and to all registered neighborhood associations deemed appropriate by the
director. Notice of a neighborhood meeting shall be in addition to, and not in
lieu of, mailed radius notices already required by this title, except when
notice of a neighborhood meeting is required of five hundred (500) or more
property owners or purchasers of record, alternate forms of notice may be
provided in accord with subsection
8-7A-5D1 of this article.
   C.   The purpose of the neighborhood meeting shall be to review the proposed
project. Such neighborhood meeting shall be held in person; however, upon
request to the Director of Development Services, the neighborhood meeting may
be held virtually if the Director determines there is good cause for holding
the meeting virtually.
      1.   In person meetings requirements.
         a.    The meeting shall be on a weekend between ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. or on a weekday between six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. The meeting shall not be on a holiday, a
holiday weekend, or the day before a holiday or holiday weekend.
         b.   The meeting shall be held at one of the following locations:
            i.   On the subject property;
            ii.   At the nearest available public meeting place including, but
not limited to, fire station, library, or community center; or
            iii.   At an office space with suitable meeting facilities if such
facilities are within a one-mile radius of the nearest public meeting place.
      2.   Remote/Virtual Meeting Requirements:
         a.   If a neighborhood meeting is to be conducted by remote/virtual
means, any required notices shall contain sufficient information so the public
may attend via the remote/virtual means.
         b.   The meeting shall be on a weekend between ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. or on a weekday between six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. The meeting shall not be on a holiday, a
holiday weekend, or the day before a holiday or holiday weekend.
   D.   The neighborhood meeting shall be conducted prior to submission of the
application. The neighborhood meeting shall not be conducted more than six (6)
months prior to submission of the application.
   E.   The application materials shall include a written verification of the
neighborhood meeting. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord.
490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 929, 9-8-2021)
8-7A-4: NOTICE TO AGENCIES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   The director shall send a summary of development applications to
applicable agencies, as determined by the director. The notice shall be sent at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
   B.   The director shall send a summary of petitions for comprehensive plan
amendments and applications for zoning ordinance amendments to applicable
agencies and political subdivisions as referenced in Idaho Code section 67-6509
(a). The notice shall be sent at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing.
   C.   Applications within an area of city impact shall be noticed in accord
with the regulations of title 9 of this code. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-7A-5: NOTICE TO PUBLIC:
   A.   Legal Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing,
the director shall publish a notice of the time and place and a summary of the
application in the official newspaper of general circulation in the county.
   B.   Site Notice: At least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing, the
applicant shall post a notice on the property which is the subject of the
application, except for zoning ordinance text amendments or comprehensive plan
amendments. The notice shall comply with the signposting requirements as set
out in this section.
   C.   Radius Notice: At least seven (7) days prior to the public hearing, the
director shall send a notice of the time and place, and a summary of the
application to property owners or purchasers of record (as listed in the
current records of Ada County) owning property within three hundred feet (300')
of the external boundaries of the property upon which the application is being
considered. The director may determine, or other applications provided for in
this title may require, that notices be sent to property owners or purchasers
of record whose properties are farther than the required minimum radius.
      1.   Any application located in a rural district shall require notice
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property being considered.
      2.   The following uses shall also require notice within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the property being considered:
         Adult entertainment establishment.
         Aircraft landing field (private ownership).
         Airport (public ownership).
         Bar, brewpub, or nightclub.
         Distributed power facility, wind rooftop.
         Explosive manufacturing or storage.
         Flammable substance storage.
         Foundry.
         Junkyard or automobile wrecking yard.
         Manufacture or processing of hazardous chemicals or gases.
         Meatpacking facility.
         Pit, mine, or quarry requiring administrative or conditional use
approval.
         Processing plant for agricultural and dairy products.
         Public or quasi-public use, public or private correctional facility.
         Racetrack, vehicle or animal.
         Sanitary landfill, restricted.
         Sawmill or planing mill.
         Slaughterhouse.
         Soil or water remediation.
         Tannery.
         Tower or antenna structure, commercial.
         Vehicle impound yard.
      3.   The following uses shall require notice within two thousand six
hundred forty feet (2,640') of the property being considered:
         Centralized power facility.
         Distributed power facility, wind freestanding tower.
         Livestock confinement facilities with three hundred one (301) or more
animal units.
      4.   Requests for exceptions to height limitations proposed as part of a
conditional use application shall require compliance with the following
additional notification distances along with any additional area that may be
substantially impacted as determined by the commission:
         a.   If the proposed architectural feature height and/or structure is
greater than one hundred feet (100') and less than four hundred feet (400'),
all property owners or purchasers of record within one thousand two hundred
feet (1,200') shall be notified.
         b.   If the proposed architectural feature height and/or structure is
four hundred feet (400') or greater, all property owners and purchasers of
record within five thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280') shall be notified,
and the feature location and proposed height shall be identified on the radius
notice.
   D.   Alternate Forms Of Notice: When notice is required of two hundred (200)
or more property owners or purchasers of record, alternate forms of notice may
be provided as follows:
      1.   In lieu of mailed notice, one additional notice of the time and
place of the hearing and summary of the proposal shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the county, not less than seven (7)
days prior to the hearing.
      2.   At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the applicant shall
post a hearing notice on the property following the signposting requirements of
this section.
      3.   At least seven (7) days prior to the hearing, a notice shall be made
available to other newspapers, radio, and television stations servicing the
county for use as a public service announcement.
   E.   Public Service Announcement: In the case of amendments to this title
and the comprehensive plan, the director shall issue a notice to other
newspapers and radio and television stations serving the jurisdiction for use
as a public service announcement prior to the public hearing.
   F.   Signposting Requirements Of Applicant:
      1.   Posting Of Hearing Notice On Property: Not less than ten (10) days
prior to the scheduled Ada County planning and zoning commission and/or the
board of Ada County commissioners hearing(s), the applicant shall post a sign
containing the notice of hearing of the application on the property under
consideration. The posting of the property must be in substantial compliance
with the following requirements:
         a.   Signage Requirements: All signs shall be installed in accordance
with the following standards:
            (1)   Number Of Signs:
               (A)   General Standards: One sign shall be posted on the subject
property so as to be visible from each roadway that is adjacent to it,
excluding Interstate 84. In the event that the property being considered has
roadway frontage of one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') or more, a
sign shall be placed at each end of the property roadway frontage.
               (B)   Standards For Electric Transmission Line Corridors/
Substations: For electric transmission line corridors running parallel to a
roadway, a sign shall be posted at each end of the corridor along the roadway
frontage and at each arterial intersection. For electric transmission line
corridors not running parallel to a roadway, signs shall be posted on both
sides of the roadway where the corridor intersects a roadway. For electric
substations, signs shall be posted on site.
            (2)   Placement: Where the property fronts an intersection of two
(2) roadways, then the sign(s) shall not be posted in the clear vision triangle
as set forth in this title. The sign(s) shall be located on the property,
outside of the public right of way. If the sign(s) cannot be placed on the
property and still be clearly visible, the sign(s) may be placed within the
right of way if the applicant can obtain the consent of the owner of the right
of way. In the case of an appeal by a person, other than the original
applicant, of an administrative or commission decision, the appellant may place
the sign on the right of way with the permission of the owner of the right of
way.
            (3)   Size And Materials: Except as noted herein, the sign(s) shall
consist of four foot by four foot (4' x 4') plywood or other hard surface
mounted on two (2) four inch by four inch (4" x 4") posts, or attached to
another director approved support and the bottom of the sign shall be a minimum
of three feet (3') above the grade elevation at the base of the sign structure
or street elevation to which the sign(s) is oriented whichever is higher.
Provided, however, for an application for a subdivision plat, variance, rezone,
vacation for property less than three (3) acres in size, any application where
the applicant is a federal, state, county or municipal government, a utility
company or corporation under the jurisdiction of the Idaho public utilities
commission, or an appeal of an administrative or a commission decision to the
board, the sign(s) may consist of an eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17")
yellow laminated paper or other similar material mounted to a rigid surface of
equal size and attached to a director approved support and the bottom of the
sign shall be a minimum of three feet (3') above the grade elevation at the
base of the sign structure or street elevation to which the sign(s) is oriented
whichever is higher.
            (4)   Wording: Centered at the top of the four foot by four foot
(4' x 4') sign(s), or the eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") laminated
yellow paper sign(s), shall be the words "ADA COUNTY PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE". In
addition, each sign will state whether it is for the Ada County planning and
zoning commission or the board of Ada County commissioners, the date, time and
address of the hearing location, a summary of the proposal to be considered,
the property size and location of the development, the name of the applicant,
project number, planner name and phone number. Each four foot by four foot (4'
x 4') sign shall be white on both sides and the letters shall be black and
shall appear on both sides.
An example of the required sign specification is set forth below with the
letter size required for a four foot by four foot (4' x 4') sign:
 
Size = 6 inches:    ADA COUNTY PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE
Size = 2 inches:    Ada County Planning and Zoning Commission
                     WHEN: ADA COUNTY will hold a public hearing on September
Size = 1.5 inches:  28, 2008 at 6:00 p.m. in the Commissioners Main Hearing
                     Room #1235, on the first floor, 200 W. Front Street,
                     Boise, ID.
                     PURPOSE: A Preliminary Plat for (You-Name-It- Subdivision)
                     to include 28 residential lots and 4 common lots, a Zoning
Size = 1.5 inches:  Ordinance Map Amendment from Southwest Community
                     Residential (RSW) District to Medium Low Density (R4)
                     District, a Property Boundary Adjustment, and a
                     Development Agreement.
                     PROPERTY SIZE/LOCATION: The property contains
Size = 1.5 inches:  approximately 14.50 acres and is located on the south side
                     of W. Any Where Drive, approximately 1/2 mile south of E.
                     You Tell Us Road, Boise, ID; Section 26, T. 3N., R. 1E.
Size = 1.5 inches:  APPLICATION BY: Average citizen, USA, Inc.
Size = 1.5 inches:  PROJECT NUMBER/PLANNER NAME/PLANNER PHONE NUMBER:
                     200801123-S-ZC-PBA-DA/Jane Doe/287-0000.
 
            (5)   Separation Requirements From Utility Power Lines: Signs shall
be located in such a way that they maintain horizontal and vertical clearance
of all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with national electrical
safety code specifications, as reviewed and determined by the local power
company. Applicants are required to contact the local electric company before
erecting a sign nearer than twenty five feet (25') of electric power lines. No
sign shall be placed within a power line easement without approval of the
holder of such easement.
            (6)   Sign Maintenance And Repair: All signs shall be continually
maintained in a state of good appearance, security, safety and repair during
the hearing process.
            (7)   Proof Of Posting: The applicant shall submit a certification
of signposting and dated photograph of each sign(s) posted to the director no
later than seven (7) days prior to the public hearing. The certification shall
be on the form provided by the development services department and contain all
the information required therein. Unless such certification and photograph(s)
are received by such date, the hearing may be tabled.
            (8)   Sign Removal And Punishment Of Violation: No later than three
(3) days after the applicant receives a final decision on the application, the
sign(s) must be removed. Failure to remove the sign(s) shall be deemed a
violation of this title with an applicant subject to the penalties in section
8-7-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 727, 5-13-2009; amd.
Ord. 772, 7-27-2011; amd. Ord. 806, 5-8-2013; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-7A-6: DECISION BY THE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Following the submission of an application, the director shall act upon
the application within sixty (60) days. Failure of the director to act upon an
application shall be deemed a denial of the application.
   B.   The director may require conditions of approval that are deemed
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and prevent undue
adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
   C.   The director shall provide the applicant written findings of fact and
conclusions of law in accord with Idaho Code sections 67-6519 and 67-6535
stating the reasons for the decision reached. All conditions of approval shall
be attached to the written decision. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-
2001; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-7A-7: DECISION BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Hearings:
      1.   The commission shall hold a hearing on each application submitted
for which a hearing is required within ninety (90) days after application
submission, excluding planned community applications, which shall be held no
later than one hundred twenty (120) days after application submission.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection A1 of this section, no hearing shall be
held by the commission on a planned community implementation plan until the
board has approved the planned community subarea comprehensive plan; provided
further, the period for issuing a decision described in subsection B of this
section shall not commence to run until the board has approved the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan.
      3.   Prior to the public hearing, public notice shall be provided as set
forth in section
8-7A-5 of this article.
   B.   Decision: The commission shall conduct the public hearing in accord
with its adopted bylaws. The commission may continue the hearing if it
determines in its discretion that additional hearings are necessary. The
commission, however, must issue a decision or recommendation, as is applicable,
no later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of the application
submission, excluding planned community applications, for which the commission
must issue a recommendation no later than two hundred forty (240) days after
submission of the application, and siting of a tower or antenna structure,
commercial for which the commission must issue a decision within one hundred
fifty (150) days after submission of the application. Failure of the commission
to issue a decision or recommendation within the time periods allowed in this
section shall be deemed a denial or a recommendation of denial of the
application, provided, however, the commission and applicant may mutually agree
to extend the time periods for a decision to be made.
   C.   Conditions Of Approval: The commission may require or recommend
conditions of approval that it deems necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare and/or to prevent undue adverse impacts on surrounding
properties.
   D.   Findings Of Fact: The commission shall provide the applicant written
findings of fact and conclusions of law in accord with Idaho Code sections 67-
6519 and 67-6535 stating the reasons for the decision or recommendation
reached. Conditions of approval shall be attached to the written decision or
recommendation. For applications where the commission is acting as a
recommending body, the commission shall forward their recommendation to the
board.
   E.   Report: For applications where a decision or recommendation is required
by this title, the commission shall file a written report with the clerk of the
board stating the findings and action taken by the commission. Such report
shall be filed no later than ten (10) days after the written decision or
recommendation. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 426, 9-26-2001; amd. Ord. 588,
7-13-2005; amd. Ord. 659, 3-28-2007; amd. Ord. 683, 1-23-2008; amd. Ord. 738,
2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 757, 8-11-2010)
8-7A-8: DECISION BY THE BOARD:
   A.   The board shall hold a hearing within ninety (90) days after
application submission or sixty (60) days after the commission makes a
recommendation (if applicable), excluding planned community applications for
which the board must hold a hearing no later than one hundred twenty (120) days
after the date the commission makes a recommendation.
   B.   No hearing shall be held by the board on a planned community
implementation plan until the board has approved the planned community subarea
plan.
   C.   Prior to the public hearing, public notice shall be provided as set
forth in section
8-7A-5 of this article.
   D.   Following the public hearing, if the board makes a material change to a
comprehensive plan amendment application or zoning ordinance amendment
application, further notice and hearing shall be provided in accord with the
regulations of sections
8-7A-4 and
8-7A-5 of this article, and with applicable agreements in title 9 of this code.
   E.   The board may require conditions of approval that it deems necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare and/or to prevent undue adverse
impacts on surrounding properties. This regulation shall not apply to
applications for comprehensive plan amendments or zoning ordinance amendments.
   F.   The board shall provide the applicant written findings of fact and
conclusions of law in accord with Idaho Code sections 67-6519 and 67-6535
stating the reasons for the decision. Conditions of approval, if any, shall be
attached to the written decision.
   G.   Following the approval of a comprehensive plan amendment, the board
shall adopt a resolution adopting the amendment to the comprehensive plan.
   H.   Following the approval of a zoning ordinance amendment, the board shall
adopt an ordinance and, within thirty (30) days, publish a summary of the
ordinance in the official newspaper of general circulation in the county. (Ord.
389, 6-14-2000; amd. Ord. 683, 1-23-2008; amd. Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-7A-9: DECISION BY THE HEARINGS EXAMINER:
   A.   Hearings: For those applications for which a hearing examiner may be
utilized, the hearings examiner, if utilized, shall hold a hearing within
ninety (90) days after an application has been submitted to the director.
      1.   Prior to the public hearing, public notice shall be provided as set
forth in section
8-7A-5 of this article.
   B.   Decision: The hearing examiner may continue the hearing if it
determines in its discretion that additional hearings are necessary. The
hearing examiner, however, must issue a decision or recommendation, as is
applicable, no later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date the
application was submitted to the director. Failure of the hearing examiner to
issue a decision or recommendation within the time periods allowed in this
section shall be deemed a denial or a recommendation of denial of the
application.
   C.   Conditions Of Approval: The hearings examiner may require conditions of
approval that he or she deems necessary to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare and/or to prevent undue adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
   D.   Decision: The hearings examiner shall provide the applicant a written
decision in accordance with Idaho Code sections 67-6520 and 67-6535 stating the
reasons for the decision. Conditions of approval, if any, shall be attached to
the written decision. (Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 683, 1-23-2008; amd. Ord.
738, 2-23-2010)
ARTICLE B. PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
8-7B-1: Duties
8-7B-2: Appointment And Terms Of Office
8-7B-3: Bylaws
8-7B-1: DUTIES:
The duties of the commission include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: Pursuant to a study of previous and existing
conditions, trends, desirable goals and objectives, or desirable future
situations, the commission shall prepare, implement, review, and make
subsequent recommendations for amendments to the comprehensive plan as set
forth in Idaho Code section 67-6509. The plan shall include all land within the
jurisdiction of the board. In addition, the commission shall accept petitions
from any person to amend the comprehensive plan as set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-6509D.
   B.   Recommendations To The Board: The commission, upon its own initiative,
upon a request of the board, or upon receipt of an application or petition as
set forth in subsection 8-7-2D3 of this chapter, shall hold a public hearing
and make a recommendation to the board.
   C.   Decisions By The Commission: The commission shall review and approve,
approve with conditions, or deny applications as set forth in subsection 8-7-
2D2 of this chapter. The commission shall act on applications pursuant to the
requirements of article A of this chapter. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-7B-2: APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
The board shall appoint a commission as set forth in the bylaws adopted by the
commission. The commission shall consist of seven (7) members. The term of
office for commission members shall be three (3) years. (Ord. 389, 6-14-2000)
8-7B-3: BYLAWS:
The bylaws shall contain procedures and requirements for commission membership,
election of officers, meetings, rules of order, and voting. (Ord. 389, 6-14-
2000)
ARTICLE C. DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
8-7C-1: Purpose
8-7C-2: Applicability
8-7C-3: Process
8-7C-1: PURPOSE:
To exercise the authority granted the board in section 67-6511A, Idaho Code; to
provide for the creation, form, recording, modification, enforcement and
termination of development agreements; and to require as a condition of a
zoning ordinance map amendment approval that an owner of land make a written
commitment concerning the use and/or development of that land. (Ord. 738, 2-23-
2010)
8-7C-2: APPLICABILITY:
It shall be a precondition of approval for all applications for a zoning
ordinance map amendment by, or on behalf of, an owner that the owner enter into
a development agreement acceptable to the board as part of receiving board
approval of the zoning ordinance map amendment. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-7C-3: PROCESS:
   A.   Development Agreement Creation, Form, Approval, And Consent:
      1.   Within three (3) business days after the commission has made a
recommendation on an application for a zoning ordinance map amendment by, or on
behalf of, an owner, the director shall forward a request to the Ada County
prosecuting attorney's office to create a development agreement using the
appropriate model form as approved by the board. The director's request shall
include all the necessary documents pertaining to the zoning ordinance map
amendment application and the creation of a development agreement, such as, but
not limited to: the legal description of the land subject to the zoning
ordinance map amendment application; deed(s); preliminary plat; and any
proposed conditions of approval.
      2.   Once the Ada County prosecuting attorney's office has drafted the
development agreement, the development agreement with any attachments shall be
returned to the director. The director shall forward it to the applicant.
      3.   Approval of the zoning ordinance map amendment application by the
board shall be contingent upon the board and owner of the land signing a
mutually acceptable development agreement.
      4.   By signing the development agreement the owner, and any subsequent
owners, consents to having the zoning ordinance map amendment reversed, in
whole or in part, upon failure to comply with the terms and/or conditions set
out in the development agreement.
   B.   Review And Enforcement: The director shall monitor the owner's
compliance with the terms and/or conditions of the development agreement. The
director shall review the status of the development every two (2) years from
the date the development agreement is signed. A more frequent review may be
undertaken by the director at the director's discretion or at the request of
the board. During a review the owner, or any subsequent owner, must demonstrate
that they are in compliance with the terms and/or conditions of the development
agreement. If the director determines that the terms and/or the conditions of
the development agreement are not being complied with, and such lack of
compliance is not immediately resolved by the owner, the director shall
recommend that the board enforce the terms of the development agreement by
modification or termination.
   C.   Modification: A development agreement may be modified, in whole or in
part, as follows:
      1.   Modification In Whole Or In Part For Failure To Comply With Terms
And/Or Conditions: The board may modify a development agreement and/or reverse
the zoning designation of the land or any undeveloped portion of the land upon
the failure of the owner or subsequent owners to comply with the terms and/or
conditions of the development agreement. Prior to modifying a development
agreement for failure to comply with the terms and/or conditions the owner or
subsequent owners shall have a reasonable time as determined in the sole
discretion of the board to come into compliance with the terms and/or
conditions. Prior to modifying a development agreement the board shall hold a
public hearing in accordance with the notice and hearing provisions of Idaho
Code section 67-6509.
      2.   Modification By Mutual Consent: The board and the owner or
subsequent owners of the land may mutually agree to modify a development
agreement and reverse the zoning map amendment, in whole or in part. Prior to
modifying the development agreement by mutual consent, the board shall hold a
public hearing in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures of Idaho
Code section 67-6509.
   D.   Termination:
      1.   Termination For Failure To Comply With Terms And/Or Conditions: The
board may terminate a development agreement and reverse the zoning designation
of the land or any undeveloped portion of the land upon the failure of the
owner or subsequent owners to comply with the terms and/or conditions of the
development agreement. Prior to terminating a development agreement for failure
to comply with the terms and/or conditions the owner or subsequent owners shall
have a reasonable time as determined by the board to come into compliance with
the terms and/or conditions. Prior to terminating the development agreement for
failure to comply, the board shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the
notice and hearing procedures of Idaho Code section 67-6509.
      2.   Termination By Mutual Consent: The board and the owner or subsequent
owners of the land may mutually agree to terminate a development agreement and
reverse the zoning map amendment, in whole or in part. Prior to terminating the
development agreement by mutual consent, the board shall hold a public hearing
in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures of Idaho Code section 67-
6509.
      3.   Termination At Owner's Discretion: The owner of land subject to a
development agreement may terminate the development agreement as to any
remaining undeveloped land if the board modifies the development agreement
without mutual consent. In the event the owner chooses to terminate the
development agreement under these circumstances, the board may reverse the
zoning designation of any undeveloped portion of the land.
      4.   Termination When Owner Has Complied With And/Or Completed All Terms
And/Or Conditions: A development agreement terminates when the owner has
complied with and/or completed all the terms and/or conditions of the
development agreement.
   E.   Recording: Approved development agreements, any subsequent modification
(s) thereof, or termination of a development agreement shall be recorded in the
office of the Ada County recorder. The applicant shall pay all recording fees.
   F.   Fees: The board shall establish a fee for conducting reviews. (Ord.
738, 2-23-2010)
ARTICLE D. HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
8-7D-1: Purpose
8-7D-2: Council Created
8-7D-3: Organization And Administration
8-7D-4: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
8-7D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of Ada County through the identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures, and objects which reflect significant elements of the county's, the
state's and the nation's historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 566, 11-2-2004; amd. Ord. 694, 5-14-2008)
8-7D-2: COUNCIL CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby created a historic preservation council which shall
consist of members who shall be appointed by the board. The number of members
shall be set by the bylaws of the council and shall be consistent with the
standards set for participation in the national park services' certified local
government program and Idaho Code section 67-4601 et seq., as may be amended
and/or retitled in the future.
   B.   All members of the council shall have a demonstrated interest,
competence, or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The board shall
endeavor to appoint at least two (2) members with professional training or
experience in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history,
urban planning, archaeology, engineering, law, or other historic preservation
related disciplines.
   C.   All appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Council
members may be reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as original appointments and the appointee shall serve for a
full term. (Ord. 566, 11-2-2004; amd. Ord. 694, 5-14-2008)
8-7D-3: ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The council shall have the power to make whatever rules are necessary
for the execution of its duties as set forth in this chapter. Rules of
procedure and bylaws adopted by the council shall be available for public
inspection. Changes to bylaws shall be approved by the board after adoption by
the council.
   B.   The council shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from among the
council members. The chairman shall preside at meetings of the council. The
vice chairman shall, in the absence of the chairman, perform the duties of the
chairman.
   C.   All meetings of the council shall be open to the public, and follow the
requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws. The council shall keep minutes and
other appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
   D.   The council may recommend to the board the employment of or the
contracting with other parties for the services of technical experts or other
persons, to assist the council in its functions. (Ord. 566, 11-2-2004; amd.
Ord. 694, 5-14-2008)
8-7D-4: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The council shall be advisory to the board and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend the acquisition, by the county, of fee simple and lesser
interests in historic properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by
purchase, bequest, or donation.
   C.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
county.
   D.   Recommend that the lease, sale, or other transfer or disposition of
historic properties be made subject to rights of public access and other
covenants and in a manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Draft and submit to the board for approval, contracts with the state or
federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other organization.
   F.   Cooperate with the federal, state, and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   G.   Make recommendations and otherwise participate in the planning
processes undertaken by cities, the county, the state, or the federal
government and related agencies.
   H.   Recommend ordinances to the county and otherwise provide information
for the purposes of historic preservation in the county.
   I.   Promote and conduct educational and interpretive programs on historic
preservation and historic properties in the county.
   J.   Enter private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of
its official duties, but only with the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof.
   K.   Review nominations of properties, within the county's jurisdiction, to
the National Register of Historic Places and provide comments to the state
historic preservation office.
   L.   Nominate properties within the county's jurisdiction to the National
Register of Historic Places. (Ord. 566, 11-2-2004; amd. Ord. 694, 5-14-2008)
ARTICLE E. LAND USE HEARINGS
SECTION:
8-7E-1: Purpose
8-7E-2: Definitions
8-7E-3: Conduct Of Hearing
8-7E-4: Record
8-7E-5: Reconsideration
8-7E-6: Decision Or Recommendation
8-7E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article shall be to provide a procedure by which the board
or the commission shall conduct hearings that may be conducted in person and/or
by virtual means in land use which, by federal, state, or county law, require
the receipt of evidence, whether testimony, documents, or otherwise, and a
response from the board in the form of a written decision, or a decision or
recommendation from the commission, based on the record. (Ord. 683, 1-23-2008;
amd. Ord. 794, 2-15-2012; amd. Ord. 843, 6-3-2015; amd. Ord. 929, 9-8-2021)
8-7E-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
APPLICANT/APPELLANT: The person or entity seeking a decision from the board, or
a decision or recommendation from the commission.
STAFF: Any Ada County officer or employee present during the hearing. (Ord.
683, 1-23-2008; amd. Ord. 794, 2-15-2012; amd. Ord. 843, 6-3-2015)
8-7E-3: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
Hearings before the board or the commission shall be conducted in general
conformance with the following procedure:
   A.   Generally: The board or the commission may require any person who will
testify at a hearing to be sworn in before testifying. The board or the
commission may place a time limit on verbal testimony. If there will be a time
limitation, the limitation shall be announced at the beginning of the hearing.
   B.   Overview Of The Application: Hearings before the board or the
commission shall commence with a very brief overview from staff and staff's
submission of the written report to the board or the commission.
   C.   Applicant/Appellant Presentation Of Application: The applicant/
appellant presents his or her application and shall be allowed an opportunity
to present testimony, documents, and other evidence which supports the
application.
   D.   Public Testimony: The board or the commission shall take comments from
the public. Those providing public testimony shall be provided an opportunity
to present testimony, documents, or other evidence. In its discretion, the
board or the commission may alternate between those supporting and those
opposing a particular application.
   E.   Applicant/Appellant Rebuttal: The applicant/appellant shall be allowed
the opportunity for rebuttal. Such rebuttal shall be limited to responding to
testimony, documents, or other evidence provided during the public testimony.
   F.   Clarification Of Factual Questions: When statements of fact in the
written record appear to be in dispute from all of the testimony given, the
board or the commission may ask the staff and/or the applicant/appellant to
clarify whether the written record is in error.
   G.   Close Record: After the board or the commission closes the record and
begins its deliberation, no further comments or testimony may be taken from the
applicant/appellant, staff or the public. (Ord. 683, 1-23-2008; amd. Ord. 792,
11-2-2011; amd. Ord. 794, 2-15-2012; amd. Ord. 843, 6-3-2015)
8-7E-4: RECORD:
The staff report shall automatically become part of the record as shall any
documents submitted by the close of business on the Thursday before the hearing
date by the applicant/appellant and the public, as shall all testimony given at
the hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board or the commission
shall close the record unless the board or the commission determines, in its
discretion, additional evidence is required, in which event, it may proceed as
follows: close the record with the exception of allowing the submission of
specifically requested information, leave the entire record open for the
submission of additional evidence to a date certain at which time it will
automatically be closed without further action of the board or the commission,
or continue the hearing to a date certain for the purpose of receiving
additional evidence and conducting such further proceedings as may, in its
discretion, be advisable. (Ord. 683, 1-23-2008; amd. Ord. 794, 2-15-2012; amd.
Ord. 843, 6-3-2015; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-7E-5: RECONSIDERATION:
   A.   Every applicant or affected person seeking judicial review of the
board's final decision must first submit with the director an application and
the fee as set forth in chapter 7, article A of this title for reconsideration
of the board's decision, specifying deficiencies in the decision within
fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, along with the applicable fee.
The deficiencies identified must be based on the record and not based on
information that is not part of the record.
   B.   The board will consider the reconsideration motion as scheduled on an
open business meeting agenda and determine whether to grant or deny the
request. If the board grants reconsideration in whole or in part, a hearing
before the board will be scheduled to address the specific deficiencies
identified by the applicant or affected person and to allow interested persons
to have an opportunity to be heard.
   C.   Notice of the public hearing on the reconsideration, identifying the
specific deficiencies alleged in the reconsideration request, will be provided
as follows, including:
      1.   Notice To Agencies And Political Subdivisions: At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the public hearing, the director shall send notice to all
political subdivisions providing services with the planning jurisdiction,
including school districts and the manager or person in charge of the local
public airport.
      2.   Legal Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing, the director shall publish a notice of the time and place in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation in the county.
      3.   Radius Notice: Will be provided in the same manner as originally
provided on the application.
      4.   Public Service Announcement: The director shall issue a notice to
other papers, radio and television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as
a public service announcement.
   D.   If the Board grants the request to hold a hearing on the
reconsideration, it must be held within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
request for reconsideration. If the board fails to timely decide, the request
for reconsideration is deemed denied.
   E.   Following the hearing on the reconsideration, the board may affirm,
reverse, or modify its prior decision and shall provide a written decision to
the applicant and the affected person(s). (Ord. 683, 1-23-2008; amd. Ord. 794,
2-15-2012; amd. Ord. 843, 6-3-2015; amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-7E-6: DECISION OR RECOMMENDATION:
When the record has been closed, the board or the commission shall take the
matter under advisement for the purpose of deliberating toward a decision or
recommendation based on the record. After deliberating, the board or the
commission may then immediately render a written decision or recommendation
complying with applicable law or may continue the matter to a date and time
certain for further deliberation and decision or recommendation. (Ord. 683, 1-
23-2008; amd. Ord. 794, 2-15-2012)
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED COMMUNITY SUBAREA DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose
8-8-2: Applicability
8-8-3: Reserved
8-8-4: Urban Public Service Level Standards
8-8-5: General Standards
8-8-6: Application Submission Standards
8-8-7: Comprehensive Plan Amendment Application
8-8-8: Implementation Plan Application
8-8-9: Annexation Standards
8-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide processes and development standards
for the development of planned communities to allow urban type development
within unincorporated Ada County, except as may be modified by title 9 of this
code. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to development of planned communities within
unincorporated Ada County. Planned community developments proposed in an area
of city impact may require an application to amend the area of city impact
agreement. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-8-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-8-4: URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE LEVEL STANDARDS:
The planned community implementation plan shall describe how urban public
services and additional public services at the service levels identified below
will be provided in the planned community. Provided, however, in areas of city
impact an urban public service level standard specifically provided in the
appropriate area of city impact agreement in title 9 of this code, if any,
shall supersede the specific urban public service level standard provided in
this section.
   A.   Minimum Urban Public Service Level Standards: Each planned community
shall provide all of the following categories of urban public services in
accordance with the stated minimum standard for each:
Urban Public Service Category Minimum Service Level
Urban Public Service Category    Minimum Service Level
Electricity                      Electricity service to every buildable
                                 property.
Telephone                        Telephone service to every buildable property.
                                 1. Drinking water service shall be provided to
                                 every buildable property within the planned
                                 community by a municipality, a private water
                                 company regulated by the Idaho public
                                 utilities commission, or a water district
                                 established pursuant to Idaho Code section 42-
                                 3201 et seq.
                                  
                                 2. Drinking water service shall maintain
                                 compliance with all applicable federal, state
                                 and local rules and laws.
                                  
Water                            3. All residential lots shall have an
                                 automated irrigation sprinkler system to
                                 minimize water usage and waste.
                                  
                                 4. All nonresidential lots shall have
                                 pressurized irrigation systems, using
                                 reclaimed water when available and permissible
                                 under all applicable federal, state, and local
                                 rules and laws.
                                  
                                 5. All irrigation systems and water uses shall
                                 comply with all applicable federal, state, and
                                 local rules and laws.
                                 1. A centralized wastewater treatment and
                                 reuse service, or connection to an existing
                                 system shall be provided to every property
                                 within the planned community by a
                                 municipality, a private sewer company, or a
                                 sewer district established pursuant to Idaho
                                 Code section 42-3201 et seq.
                                  
                                 2. Wastewater treatment and reuse service
                                 shall maintain compliance with all applicable
                                 federal, state and local rules and laws.
                                  
Wastewater treatment             3. If treated wastewater will be used for
                                 irrigation then the irrigated area and the
                                 amount of treated wastewater used for
                                 irrigation shall be identified in the planned
                                 community implementation plan, and shall
                                 comply with all applicable federal, state and
                                 local rules and laws.
                                  
                                 4. For specific lots, the board may waive or
                                 alter the centralized wastewater treatment
                                 requirement on a case by case basis where
                                 topography or other considerations make
                                 centralized service infeasible.
Law enforcement                  1 law enforcement officer per 1,200 residents.
                                 1. Location within a fire district.
                                  
                                 2. Fire protection shall be provided to all
                                 areas within the planned community with a
                                 response time of 5 minutes or less for the
                                 arrival of the first arriving engine company
                                 at a fire suppression incident, as measured
                                 from the time the unit acknowledges
Fire protection                  notification of the emergency. (National Fire
                                 Protection Association 1710 section 4.1.2.1 -
                                 2004 edition.)
                                  
                                 3. If a new fire station is required for the
                                 planned community to meet the response time
                                 then location of the new fire station should
                                 comply with the master siting plan of the fire
                                 district.
                                 1. 5 minutes or less for the arrival of a unit
                                 with first responder or higher level
                                 capability at an emergency medical incident,
                                 as measured from the time the unit
                                 acknowledges notification of the emergency for
                                 90 percent of the anticipated population of
                                 the planned community. (National Fire
                                 Protection Association 1710 section 4.1.2.1 -
                                 2004 edition.)
                                  
                                 2. 9 minutes or less for the arrival of an
                                 advanced life support (ALS) unit at an
Paramedic services (EMS)         emergency medical incident, as measured from
                                 the time the unit acknowledges notification of
                                 the emergency for 90 percent of the
                                 anticipated population of the planned
                                 community. (National Fire Protection
                                 Association 1710 section 4.1.2.1 - 2004
                                 edition.)
                                  
                                 3. If a new emergency services station is
                                 required for the planned community to meet the
                                 applicable response time then location of the
                                 new emergency services station should comply
                                 with the master siting plan of the district.
                                 1. Sufficient land shall be incorporated into
                                 the land use plan for elementary educational
                                 facilities to serve the planned community
                                 according to the applicable school district
                                 standard.
                                  
                                 2. Sufficient land shall be incorporated into
Schools                          the land use plan for middle school and high
                                 school educational facilities to serve the
                                 planned community according to the applicable
                                 school district standards.
                                  
                                 3. Elementary school sites shall be within 11/
                                 2 miles of 50 percent of the elementary age
                                 residents of the planned community.
                                 1. Planned communities shall be designed to
                                 have an internal trip capture of at least 15
                                 percent, as calculated using the methodology
                                 for estimating trip generation at multiuse
                                 sites in the latest edition of the ITE "Trip
                                 Generation Handbook" and/or any other
                                 methodology approved by ACHD, provided,
                                 however, that the appropriate standard
                                 established by the applicable area of city
                                 impact in title 9 of this code may be used as
                                 an alternative.
                                  
                                 2. The planned community shall have a
                                 comprehensive transportation demand management
                                 program for the planned community that will
                                 reduce weekday peak period single occupant
                                 vehicle trips compared to the forecasted trip
                                 generation for the project without
                                 transportation demand management strategies.
Transportation                   At a minimum, the transportation demand
                                 management program shall include: street
                                 widths to accommodate transit service;
                                 internal street connectivity consistent with
                                 ACHD's transportation land use integration
                                 plan; land for bus shelters (minimum of a 5
                                 foot x 8 foot pad, as appropriate); Americans
                                 with disabilities act compliant sidewalks or
                                 pathways that are connected to the curb at bus
                                 stop locations as determined at the discretion
                                 of VRT; carpool and vanpool parking
                                 designations at commercial centers; park and
                                 ride facilities; lighting; and bicycle
                                 facilities. Trip reduction rate generated due
                                 to a transportation demand management program
                                 shall not be used in the traffic impact study
                                 analysis submitted to ACHD and ITD.
                                  
                                 3. Level of service on all public roadways
                                 shall be determined by the jurisdiction (ACHD
                                 or ITD) having authority over the roadways.
                                 1. A minimum of 10 acres per 1,000 population
                                 of developed open space based on 2.5 persons
                                 per dwelling unit.
                                  
                                 2. A minimum of 15 percent of the total gross
                                 area of the planned community shall be
                                 dedicated to natural open space.
Natural and developed open space 3. A minimum of 30 percent of the total gross
                                 area of the planned community shall be
                                 dedicated to natural open space if the planned
                                 community is in the foothills.
                                 4. All natural open space and developed open
                                 space shall be accessible to the public and
                                 shall be created and evidenced by recorded
                                 easements and plat notes, or other recorded
                                 instruments.
                                 Sufficient space shall be incorporated into
Library                          the land use plan for library services to
                                 serve the planned community.
 
   B.   Additional Service Standards: Each planned community must provide a
minimum of six (6) of the following categories of additional services in
accordance with the stated minimum standard for each:
Additional Service Category Minimum Standard
Additional Service Category Minimum Standard
Developed open space        A minimum of 12 acres per 1,000 population based on
                            2.5 persons per dwelling unit.
                            A minimum of 16.5 percent of the total gross area
Natural open space          of the planned community shall be dedicated to
                            natural open space.
Multi-family housing        A minimum of 10 percent of the total number of
                            dwelling units.
                            A minimum of 15 percent of for sale housing
Workforce housing           (single-family and multi-family) priced for
                            households earning 120 percent of the Ada County
                            household median income or below.
                            A minimum of 30 percent of the total rental units
Rental housing              for multi- family housing priced for households
                            earning up to 80 percent of the Ada County
                            household median income.
                            1. Water efficiency (e.g., low water plumbing
                            fixtures in homes and buildings; primarily low
                            water or xeric landscaping; limited turf).
                            2. Energy efficiency (e.g., energy star homes or
Green community             comparable standard).
                            3. Materials efficiency (e.g., using less building
                            materials than standard).
                            4. Green infrastructure/design (e.g., application
                            of reclaimed wastewater; groundwater recharge; less
                            impermeable surface).
                            1. A minimum standing collection of 31/2 volumes
                            per resident.
                            2. Provision of space at agreed upon stages of
                            residential development consistent with 1.25 square
Library                     feet per resident.
                            3. Staffing of 1 full time employee per 1,000
                            residents.
                            4. 1 public computer per 1,000 residents with a
                            minimum of 3 public computers in any library space.
                            1. Donation of land for educational facility beyond
                            that needed to primarily serve the planned
Schools                     community population.
                            2. Site size and location and donation requirements
                            must be in accordance with adopted school district
                            standards.
Mixed use district          5,000 square feet finished building space per 1,000
                            residents (appropriately phased).
Employment                  Office park, industrial park or other area
                            sufficient for 50 employees.
                            90 percent of dwelling units located within 1/
Walkability                 2 mile walking distance to neighborhood shops/
                            services and/or developed open space.
                            At least 15.75 percent internal trip capture as
                            calculated using the methodology for estimating
Trip capture                trip generation at multiuse sites in the latest
                            edition of the ITE "Trip Generation Handbook" and/
                            or any other methodology approved by ACHD.
Other                       Must be approved by director or board.
 
   C.   Waiver: The board may waive or alter one or more of the public service
standards in this section on a case by case basis. The applicant shall submit
the request and justification for such waiver as part of subsection
8-8-7C7 of this chapter. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-8-5: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be applicable to all planned communities:
   A.   The planned community shall have a community conservation director
responsible for, but not limited to, conservation efforts, environmental and
recreational management and environmental education for the community, and
implementation of mitigation actions outlined in the wildlife and habitat
management plan. The community conservation director shall have the
qualifications required by subsection
8-8-6A6 of this chapter. The planned community shall have a community
conservation advisory committee including, but not limited to, the community
conservation director, a representative from Idaho department of fish and game;
bureau of land management; Ada County development services; natural resource
conservation service; Ada soil and water conservation district, and the planned
community homeowners' association. Progress reports from the community
conservation director will be provided to the community conservation advisory
committee. The community conservation advisory committee shall review the
progress reports and where necessary, recommend to the community conservation
director and the director changes in management direction or alteration of the
wildlife and habitat management plan objectives.
   B.   The planned community's internal roadway network and connectivity to
the regional transportation system shall be designed to conform to Idaho
transportation department's (ITD) and Ada County highway district's (ACHD)
current access management policies, interim policies, and corridor studies.
Cross access easements shall be provided to adjacent properties when determined
necessary by ITD, ACHD and/or Ada County.
   C.   The planned community's internal trail and pathway network and
connectivity to the regional trail and pathway system shall be designed to
conform to the Ada County parks, open space and trails plan, and the Ada County
ridge to rivers pathway plan, or the applicable city's trailway and path plan
(s) if located in an area of city impact. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-8-6: APPLICATION SUBMISSION STANDARDS:
   A.   Qualifications: All technical reports and recommendations shall be
prepared under the supervision of and signed by a qualified expert in each
relevant field based on the following qualifications:
      1.   Hazardous Areas, Hydrology, And Soils: Professional engineer
licensed in the state of Idaho;
      2.   Economist: A professional who demonstrates experience in community
development, land use, and/or public administration, specifically with regard
to land development feasibility, public services provision, public finance
policy, and the economic and fiscal impacts of private development. A graduate
degree in economics, public finance, or public administration and at least
seven (7) years of experience; or a bachelor's degree in economics, public
finance, or public administration and at least ten (10) years of experience; or
a bachelor's degree and at least fifteen (15) years of experience;
      3.   Planner: A professional who is engaged in professional planning,
either currently or in the past, as defined by the American Institute Of
Certified Planners (AICP), and who has completed a graduate degree in planning,
from a program accredited by the planning accreditation board (PAB), plus two
(2) years of professional planning experience; or a bachelor's degree in
planning, from a PAB accredited program, plus three (3) years of professional
planning experience; or any other postgraduate, graduate or undergraduate
degree plus four (4) years of professional planning experience; or no college
degree plus eight (8) years of professional planning experience;
      4.   Transportation: A professional engineer licensed in the state of
Idaho;
      5.   Historical And Cultural Resource Findings: Archaeologists, history
and architectural history consultants with submitted documentation that they
have demonstrated that they meet the secretary of the interior's 36 CFR 61
qualifications;
      6.   Wildlife Habitat Mitigation Plan And Habitat Analysis: A
professional(s) whose experience demonstrates considerable knowledge of
planning and conducting field research for wildlife habitat projects, and
formulating specific plans to mitigate wildlife habitat impacts. For the
wildlife component, a graduate degree in wildlife biology or a closely related
field and at least two (2) years of experience; or a bachelor's degree in
wildlife biology or a closely related field and at least four (4) years of
experience; or a bachelor's degree and at least eight (8) years of experience.
For the vegetative component, a graduate degree in botany, plant ecology, or
closely related field and at least two (2) years of experience; or a bachelor's
degree in botany, plant ecology, or closely related field and at least four (4)
years of experience; or a bachelor's degree and at least eight (8) years of
experience;
      7.   Wetlands: A professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho or
a certified wetlands specialist;
      8.   Slope Stabilization: A professional engineer licensed in the state
of Idaho;
      9.   Revegetation: A licensed landscape architect whose experience
demonstrates considerable knowledge in the implementation and execution of
slope stabilization, revegetation projects, and vegetation management; and
      10.   Groundwater: An individual or entity identified on the department
of environmental quality (DEQ) environmental consulting firms list (available
on the DEQ website) or a hydrologist with technical background and experience
in planning, conducting, and coordinating complex hydrologic studies in
groundwater modeling and analysis.
   B.   Digital Submissions:
      1.   Digital submissions, in a format approved by the director, shall
accompany all paper submissions; and
      2.   Digital mapping shall be formatted to be compatible with the
county's geographic information system.
   C.   Mapping: All maps shall have a legend, north arrow, scale, title and
author. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
8-8-7: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT APPLICATION:
   A.   Purpose: To analyze the existing conditions of the site and regional
impacts from the proposed development to determine the appropriateness of the
location and the feasibility of the development's success; to plan for and
ensure the availability of urban public services; to create a planned community
subarea comprehensive plan specific to the subarea.
   B.   Process: All requests for the creation of a planned community subarea
comprehensive plan shall comply with the following:
      1.   Public Services Scoping Session(s): Prior to application submission
a scoping work session shall be held with Ada County development services and
may include affected public service providers and regulatory agencies,
including, but not limited to, Idaho department of environmental quality, Idaho
department of water resources, Central district health department, the army
corps of engineers, and military officials if the planned community is within
the AMI;
      2.   Transportation Scoping Session(s): Prior to application submission a
scoping work session shall be held with Ada County development services and may
include affected transportation agencies, including, but not limited to, Ada
County highway district, Idaho transportation department, Community Planning
Association Of Southwest Idaho (COMPASS), and Valley Regional Transit (VRT);
      3.   Public Involvement:
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of the public involvement sessions is to
provide interested members of the public the opportunity to be involved in the
review of the proposed planned community subarea comprehensive plan prior to
concept finalization.
         b.   Process: Prior to application submission the applicant shall hold
a minimum of two (2) public involvement sessions. The director or his designee,
all cities in Ada County, counties with borders contiguous to the proposed
planned community, all registered neighborhood associations in Ada County, and
all property owners within one mile of the proposed planned community subarea
comprehensive plan boundaries, shall be invited to each meeting via mailed
notices. Property owners may be invited using alternative forms of notice in
compliance with subsection 8-7A-5D of this title. In addition, the applicant
shall publish a notice of the time and place of the sessions in the official
newspaper of general circulation in the county.
            (1)   Planning Type Process: The public involvement sessions shall
be a facilitated planning type process where interested parties and the
developer can work collaboratively with each other in reviewing the proposed
planned community subarea comprehensive plan concepts.
            (2)   Location: The meeting shall be held at one of the following
locations:
               (A)   On the subject property;
               (B)   At a nearby available public meeting place including, but
not limited to, fire station, library or community center; or
               (C)   At an office space with suitable meeting facilities.
            (3)   Verification: The application materials shall include a
written verification that the public involvement sessions took place.
      4.   Application Types: A comprehensive plan text amendment and zoning
ordinance map amendment shall be submitted as described below and in section
8-7-3 of this title;
      5.   Transmittals: In addition to transmittal requirements identified in
section
8-7A-4 of this title, a complete copy of the application shall be provided by
Ada County to the providers of the urban public services for the area covered
by the planned community subarea comprehensive plan.
   C.   Application Requirements: The applicant shall submit the following
analyses, reports and reviews supporting the proposed planned community subarea
comprehensive plan goals and policies:
      1.   Population: A population analysis of pertinent historical and future
trends of the Boise metropolitan area and Ada County as context for the
proposed planned community, including such characteristics as total population,
household population, household size, household income, age, and gender. The
analysis shall include at a minimum:
         a.   A written assessment of population and household demographic
trends in the Boise metropolitan area and Ada County as a determinant of
planned community design;
         b.   A written assessment of population and household growth
projections in the Boise metropolitan area and Ada County including
consideration of established regional or state projections utilized for public
planning purposes; and
         c.   A written assessment demonstrating the adequacy of the location
and proposed land uses of the planned community in accommodating demonstrated
population household and demographic growth trends in the Boise metropolitan
area and Ada County.
      2.   School Facilities And Transportation: An analysis of public school
capacity and associated transportation considerations for the proposed planned
community. The analysis shall be developed in coordination with the applicable
school district(s) and shall include at a minimum:
         a.   A map depicting existing school facilities within one mile of the
planned community boundary, including any school district boundary lines;
         b.   A determination of the specific school district(s) that will
provide public education services to planned community residents;
         c.   A written assessment describing potential school enrollment
generated by the planned community including detail of elementary, middle and
high school enrollment consistent with enrollment projection standards of the
affected school district(s);
         d.   A written assessment describing public school facility needs, if
any, within the planned community as a result of anticipated enrollment
generated by the planned community consistent with capital facilities planning
standards of the affected school district; and
         e.   A written assessment describing public school student
transportation needs, if any, from the planned community to school facilities
off site consistent with student transportation standards of the affected
school district(s), the public school capacity and transportation.
      3.   Economic Development: An analysis of the economic base of the area,
including, employment, industries, economies, jobs, and income levels. The
analysis shall include at a minimum:
         a.   A written assessment demonstrating that the planned community is
reasonably supported by economic and market conditions in Ada County and the
Boise metropolitan area. This assessment shall include conceptual information
about the following:
            (1)   Projected dwelling unit counts, build out/absorption and
occupancy in the context of regional growth trends, identified demographic
trends and competing development;
            (2)   Likely residential product types and price ranges in current
dollars suitable for development within the planned community as a function of
planned community location and physical features, anticipated market
conditions, and likely demographics as identified in the population section of
the planned community comprehensive plan;
            (3)   Planned commercial buildings/gross space, if any, and
anticipated build out/absorption in the context of regional growth trends,
residential development at the planned community, and locational features
including transportation and access; and
            (4)   Planned industrial building/gross space, if any, and
anticipated build out/absorption in the context of regional growth trends,
industrial land utilizing industry trends, and proximate infrastructure.
         b.   A written assessment of current dollar costs associated with both
private and public infrastructure and facility improvements required to provide
urban public services to the site broken out into private and public
categories. This assessment shall include an analysis of unique conditions of
the site consistent with the natural resources inventory required by subsection
C5a of this section, which may contribute to an increased cost in providing
urban public facilities and urban public services.
      4.   Land Use: An analysis of natural land types, existing land covers
and uses, and the intrinsic suitability of lands for uses such as agriculture,
forestry, mineral exploration and extraction, preservation, recreations,
housing, commerce, industry, and public facilities. Proposed general land uses
shall be developed consistent with the natural resource and wildlife inventory
analysis as required by subsection C5 of this section. The analysis shall
include at a minimum:
         a.   A map depicting existing land uses and zoning within one mile of
the proposed planned community boundary (including interior boundaries, if
any);
         b.   A written assessment describing the general categories of
existing land uses and zoning within one mile of the proposed planned community
boundary (including interior boundaries, if any);
         c.   A map depicting proposed general land uses and densities within
the proposed planned community and within one mile of the proposed planned
community boundary (including interior boundaries, if any), including intensity
of nonresidential uses, and developed and natural open space. Land uses and
densities outside of the planned community boundary shall be based on the
future land use designations of the applicable comprehensive plan; and
         d.   A written assessment describing the general categories of
proposed land uses within the proposed planned community and within one mile of
the proposed planned community boundary (including interior boundaries, if any)
including conceptual intensity of nonresidential uses, net density and
potential impacts to adjacent properties as a result of the proposed land uses.
      5.   Natural Resources And Wildlife Inventory: An analysis including the
uses of rivers and other waters, forests, range, soils, harbors, fisheries,
minerals, thermal water, beaches, watersheds, and shorelines, and an analysis
of existing wildlife and habitat conditions. The analyses shall include at a
minimum:
         a.   Natural Resources Inventory:
            (1)   A map depicting, and a written assessment of, the following:
topography; wetlands; soils from the most recent soil survey information; prime
agricultural land; mineral resources; and rivers and other bodies of water; and
            (2)   A written assessment of the effect the planned community will
have on the source, quantity and quality of ground and surface water in the
area.
         b.   Wildlife Habitat Inventory:
            (1)   Aerial photography of sufficient quality and scale to show
land unit boundaries, geological features, vegetation types, creeks, riparian
areas and wetlands, roads, trails and other landscape features;
            (2)   A map prepared in consultation with Idaho department of fish
and game, generally depicting and a written assessment (including methodologies
used) of the following:
               (A)   Site resources including vegetation/habitat types
(including noxious weeds), and wildlife;
               (B)   Existing vegetation condition based on ecological site
descriptions (ESD) from the latest version of the "Indicators Of Rangeland
Health";
               (C)   Special status species and threatened and endangered
species based on Idaho fish and game conservation data, and United States
department of interior, fish and wildlife service information;
               (D)   Both current and potential use of big game winter range,
and where appropriate pronghorn antelope, based upon Idaho department of fish
and game (IDF&G) data. Site specific surveys may be used to supplement IDF&G
data;
               (E)   Structure and function of existing wildlife habitats,
including connectivity, habitat fragmentation, and wildlife corridors;
               (F)   Priority habitat based upon the Idaho comprehensive
wildlife conservation strategy, except, if a planned community is planned
adjacent to or in the vicinity of bureau of land management and/or United
States forest service managed federal lands, the species lists shall be cross
referenced with the respective agency lists; and
               (G)   Existing human disturbance to wildlife and habitat as a
result of livestock, transportation, recreation, agriculture and development
within a minimum of one mile of the planned community boundary.
      6.   Hazardous Areas: An analysis of known hazards as may result from
susceptibility to surface ruptures from faulting, ground shaking, ground
failure, landslides or mudslides; avalanche hazards resulting from development
in the known or probable path of snow slides and avalanches, floodplain and
wildfire hazards. The analysis shall include at a minimum a map and written
assessment of known hazards.
      7.   Urban Public Services And Urban Public Facilities: An analysis
showing general plans for urban public services and urban public facilities.
The plan may also show locations of civic centers and public buildings. The
plan shall be developed in coordination with the affected public service
providers and regulatory agencies. The plan shall include, at a minimum:
         a.   A map depicting existing urban public services and urban public
facilities within one mile of the proposed planned community boundary;
         b.   A written assessment of existing urban public services and urban
public facilities within one mile of the proposed planned community boundary,
including availability and adequacy to serve the proposed land uses and
population, and a description of the impacts to existing levels of service as a
result of such utilization;
         c.   A map depicting proposed urban public services and urban public
facilities projected to serve the proposed land uses and population including
conceptual location, distribution, extent and intensity of such, including
major system components and any projected additions and/or extensions to
existing urban public services and urban public facilities;
         d.   A written assessment of proposed urban public services and urban
public facilities including availability and adequacy to serve the proposed
land uses and population, the projected location, distribution, extent and
intensity of such, including major system components and any projected
additions, extensions and improvements to existing urban public services and
urban public facilities;
         e.   A written assessment of water rights detailing the applicability
and availability of such, including a description of any applications and/or
permits that are required by the Idaho department of water resources; and
         f.   A determination of reasonable access, per Idaho department of
environmental quality (IDEQ) policy, issued by IDEQ.
      8.   Transportation: An analysis of impacts to the regional
transportation system resulting from the proposed land uses and population
prepared in coordination with, as applicable, the Idaho transportation
department, Ada County highway district, Community Planning Association Of
Southwest Idaho, Valley Regional Transit, and any other local jurisdiction(s)
having authority over the public highways and streets materially affected by
the planned community. The traffic impact study shall be submitted to ITD and
ACHD thirty (30) days prior to submission of the planned community subarea
comprehensive plan application to the director.
      9.   Recreation: An analysis showing the existing system of recreation
and natural and developed open space areas, including parks, parkways,
trailways, riverbank greenbelts, beaches, playgrounds, and other recreation
areas and programs within one mile of the boundaries of the proposed planned
community subarea comprehensive plan area. The analysis shall include at a
minimum:
         a.   A map depicting existing public recreation, open space areas,
parks and trails;
         b.   A written assessment of existing public recreation, open space
areas, parks, trails and programs;
         c.   A map of proposed conceptual, natural and developed open space,
or a reference to the land use section of the planned community comprehensive
plan; and
         d.   A written assessment of proposed conceptual natural and developed
open space and programs, or a reference to the land use section of the planned
community comprehensive plan.
      10.   Special Areas Or Sites: An analysis of areas, sites, or structures
of historical, archeological, architectural, ecological, wildlife, or scenic
significance. The analysis shall include at a minimum a written assessment of
those sites and areas of significance.
      11.   Housing: An analysis of housing conditions and needs; plans for
improvement of housing standards; and plans for the provision of safe,
sanitary, and adequate housing, including the provision for affordable and low
cost conventional housing. The analysis shall be developed in accordance with
subsection C1 of this section and shall include at a minimum a written
assessment including:
         a.   Housing conditions and needs within the region;
         b.   Housing options, including single-family, multi-family,
condominiums, apartments, live/work, mixed use units and affordable and low
cost conventional housing; and
         c.   A discussion of how the planned community will provide for the
housing needs of the projected population, as identified in subsection C1 of
this section.
      12.   Community Design: A clear description of the vision of the desired
future state of the planned community that provides direction for strategic
planning. A general description of the regulations that will be created and
utilized for the control of landscaping, building design, tree planting, signs,
and suggested patterns and standards of community design, development and
beautification. The analysis shall be developed in consideration of the vision
of the planned community comprehensive plan and shall include at a minimum:
         a.   A written assessment of the above referenced items; and
         b.   Illustrative examples of the proposed vision for the community.
   D.   Required Planned Community Subarea Comprehensive Plan Goals And
Policies: The planned community subarea comprehensive plan text amendment
application shall include a proposed planned community subarea comprehensive
plan to be used to guide future development taking into account the vision of
the proposed planned community and the analysis, reports, and reviews required
in subsection C of this section. The planned community subarea comprehensive
plan goals and policies should include, at a minimum, the following elements:
      1.   Population: Goals and policies addressing population, including at a
minimum the desired density for the planned community by subset generally and
overall including a minimum net density goal of 3.0 residential dwelling units
per acre.
      2.   School Facilities And Transportation: Goals and policies describing
how public school capacity and associated transportation considerations for the
proposed planned community will be addressed including at a minimum:
         a.   Ensure that school facilities are safe and accessible by
automobile, transit, walking and bicycling, and require minimal need for school
operated busing; and
         b.   Ensure that schools are sited to be complementary to and
compatible with surrounding neighborhoods to avoid conflicts with incompatible
land uses and/or adverse conditions.
      3.   Economic Development: Goals and policies addressing economic
development within the proposed planned community including at a minimum:
         a.   The planned community will provide for a variety of ownership and
rental residential units suitable for Ada County population and work force
growth;
         b.   The planned community should provide commercial services and
dedicated employment use areas on site, unless designed around an existing
commercial or employment center, to measurably reduce planned community
resident vehicle miles traveled; and
         c.   The planned community shall develop in an economically
sustainable and financially self-supporting manner.
      4.   Land Use: Goals and policies addressing land use that are consistent
with the vision for the planned community.
      5.   Natural Resources: Goals and policies including the following that
at a minimum:
         a.   Protect wildlife habitat by avoiding fragmentation of habitat
corridors;
         b.   Protect water quality;
         c.   Protect development from flood hazards;
         d.   Preserve existing healthy trees and rare plants;
         e.   Preserve existing prime farmland, riparian areas and wetlands;
         f.   Minimize development on areas subject to the regulations of the
hillside overlay district; and
         g.   Provide an accessible system of greenways and trails.
      6.   Hazardous Areas: Goals and policies for identifying and avoiding
development in hazardous areas.
      7.   Urban Public Services: Goals and policies guiding development in
such a way as to provide urban public services and facilities in self-
supporting units, and including the following that at a minimum:
         a.   Ensure utility systems are adequate and meet the needs of the
residents and businesses;
         b.   Minimize energy consumption and water demands through
conservation methods;
         c.   Ensure environmentally sound management of services; and
         d.   Meet the required urban service level standards, with, or
without, a transition plan.
      8.   Transportation: Goals and policies regarding transportation,
including the following that at a minimum:
         a.   Ensure ongoing coordination with ITD, ACHD, COMPASS and VRT;
         b.   Establish context sensitive street cross sections that safely
convey existing and projected traffic;
         c.   Develop and adopt a menu of traffic calming provisions; and
         d.   Ensure consistency with any adopted regional or local
transportation plans, including pedestrian, bicycle transit, corridor plans,
and communities in motion.
      9.   Recreation: Goals and policies addressing recreation including at a
minimum consistency with any adopted regional or local plans.
      10.   Special Areas Or Sites: Goals and policies for protecting areas,
sites, or structures of historical, archeological, architectural, ecological,
wildlife, or scenic significance.
      11.   Housing: Goals and policies supporting a variety of housing.
      12.   Community Design: Goals and policies outlining the vision for
community design including at a minimum:
         a.   Pedestrian focused design elements such as continuous sidewalks
or equivalent provisions for walking and orienting the principal functional
entry of each building on a front facade that faces a public space such as a
street, square, park, paseo, or plaza;
         b.   A goal for providing two (2) or more community gathering areas
sized to meet the needs of the planned community residents;
         c.   A goal of path and trail linkages between all neighborhoods,
developed open space, schools, neighborhood shops/services, transit facilities,
and alternate modes of transportation and, where applicable, connectivity with
nearby public trails and public lands.
   E.   Required Findings: In order to amend the Ada County comprehensive plan
to allow a planned community subarea comprehensive plan the board of Ada County
commissioners must make all of the following findings:
      1.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan adequately addresses the future housing
needs of the Boise metropolitan area and Ada County population growth;
      2.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan adequately addresses the educational needs
of the proposed population;
      3.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan is reasonably supported by economic and
market conditions in Ada County and the Boise metropolitan area;
      4.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan adequately provides for a mixture of land
uses including, but not limited to, low cost housing;
      5.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan adequately protects fish, wildlife, and
recreation resources;
      6.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan adequately avoids undue water and air
pollution;
      7.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan ensures that important environmental
features are protected;
      8.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan adequately protects life and property in
areas subject to natural hazards and disasters;
      9.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan encourages the protection of prime
agricultural, forestry, and mining lands for production of food, fiber, and
minerals;
      10.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan ensures that the development is consistent
with the physical characteristics of the land;
      11.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan demonstrates that the planned community
subarea comprehensive plan adequately addresses urban public services;
      12.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan ensures that adequate transportation
facilities and services are provided for the proposed planned community
subarea;
      13.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea comprehensive plan adequately addresses the needs of the
regional transportation network;
      14.   Growth in the proposed planned community subarea will not adversely
impact existing regional conditions; and
      15.   The planned community subarea comprehensive plan text amendment
contains the comprehensive plan components required by subsection D of this
section. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 812, 8-14-2013)
8-8-8: IMPLEMENTATION PLAN APPLICATION:
   A.   Purpose: To develop a plan that specifies future implementation
strategies of a planned community; to create a plan that includes mitigation
measures, phasing, actions, programs, budgets, ordinance(s), and timing of
infrastructure improvements; and to demonstrate how the development of the
planned community will comply with the planned community subarea comprehensive
plan.
   B.   Process: All requests for the creation of a planned community
implementation plan shall comply with the following:
      1.   Time Of Submission: A planned community implementation plan must be
submitted to the director no later than four (4) years after the date of
approval of the planned community subarea comprehensive plan. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this code to the contrary, no time extensions shall be
allowed.
      2.   Public Services Scoping Session(s): Prior to planned community
implementation plan application submission a scoping work session shall be
required by the director and consist of Ada County development services and may
include affected public service providers and regulatory agencies, including,
but not limited to, Idaho department of environmental quality, Idaho department
of water resources, Central district health department, the army corps of
engineers, and military officials if the planned community is within the AMI.
      3.   Transportation Scoping Session(s): Prior to planned community
implementation plan application submission a scoping work session shall be
required by the director and consist of Ada County development services and may
include affected transportation agencies, including, but not limited to, Ada
County highway district, Idaho transportation department, Community Planning
Association Of Southwest Idaho (COMPASS), and Valley Regional Transit (VRT).
      4.   Public Involvement Sessions:
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of the public involvement sessions is to
provide interested members of the public the opportunity to be involved in
review of the proposed community design prior to concept finalization.
         b.   Process: Prior to application submission the applicant shall hold
a minimum of two (2) public involvement sessions. At a minimum the director or
his designee; and cities, registered neighborhood associations, and all
property owners within one mile of the proposed subarea boundaries shall be
invited to each meeting via mailed notices. Property owners within one mile may
be notified by alternate means in compliance with subsection 8-7A-5D of this
title. In addition, the applicant shall publish a notice of the time and place
of the sessions in the official newspaper of general circulation in the county.
            (1)   Review Design; Input: The public involvement sessions shall
provide interested parties the opportunity to review the proposed community
design and provide input.
            (2)   Location: The meeting shall be held at one of the following
locations:
               (A)   On the subject property;
               (B)   At a nearby available public meeting place including, but
not limited to, fire station, library, or community center; or
               (C)   At an office space with suitable meeting facilities.
            (3)   Verification: The application materials shall include a
written verification that the public involvement sessions took place.
      5.   Additional Applications: A zoning text amendment application and a
zoning map amendment application creating the planned community overlay
district shall be submitted concurrently with the planned community
implementation plan application. A preliminary plat application may be
submitted concurrently with the planned community implementation plan
application.
      6.   Transmittals: In addition to transmittal requirements identified in
section
8-7A-4 of this title, a complete copy of the application shall be provided by
Ada County to the identified providers of urban public services for the
proposed planned community. Ada County shall ask those providers to comment on
whether the information for their agency is consistent with the information
provided by the agency and that the service levels provided in this code can be
achieved.
   C.   Planned Community Implementation Plan Application Requirements: A
planned community implementation plan application shall cover the entire
boundary of the approved planned community and shall consist of the following
material:
      1.   Financing Plan: Plans to ensure construction of urban public
facilities, and long term operation and maintenance of urban public services.
The financing plan, at a minimum, shall include the following for each phase of
the planned community through build-out as follows:
         a.   A brief narrative description, including:
            (1)   Type of facility or facilities planned, including
identification of any affected public service provider;
            (2)   Description of phasing, including facilities upgrades and
expansion of capacity, including anticipated timing of these steps, if
applicable;
            (3)   Description of the entities responsible for ongoing operation
and maintenance of each identified facility, and the planned revenue sources
anticipated to support facility operation in perpetuity.
         b.   A plan of construction costs and planned financing for each urban
public facility by phase using the below provided example pro forma, including:
            (1)   Total construction costs and share of costs borne by the
owner and partners;
            (2)   Funding sources by category, including fees, contribution(s)
of owner and partners, and borrowing;
            (3)   Annual cash uses, including facility construction and/or
expansion, additional land acquisition, debt retirement, and interest; and
            (4)   Total required funding.
Pro forma example:
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITY CONSTRUCTION PRO FORMA
Year 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 [...]
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITY CONSTRUCTION PRO FORMA
Year                 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 [...]
A. Sources                   
  Fees                      
  Owner Equity              
  Borrowing -               
   Financing
  Total Sources             
B. Uses                      
  Construction              
  Expansion                 
  Additional Land           
  Debt Service/             
   Return on Capital
  Total Uses                
SURPLUS/DEFICIT              
 
         c.   A plan of operation and maintenance financing for each urban
public service using the example pro forma provided below, including:
            (1)   Annual operation and maintenance costs;
            (2)   Capital renewal and replacement costs (capital reserve
account);
            (3)   Estimated annual revenue, identified by sources;
            (4)   Estimated annual private funding required, if any, to ensure
continuation of urban public services; and
            (5)   Private funding sources, contribution(s) of owner and
partners, and borrowing.
Pro forma example:
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE REVENUE AND EXPENSE PRO FORMA
Year 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 [...]
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE REVENUE AND EXPENSE PRO FORMA
Year                                        1 2 3 4 5 6 7 [...]
A. Revenue                                          
  Connection Fees                                  
  Service Fees                                     
  Developer Contribution                           
  Borrowing -                                      
   Financing
  Total Revenues                                   
B. Expenses                                         
  O&M Costs                                        
  Capital Reserve (Repair and Replacement)         
  Debt Service/                                    
   Return on Capital
  Total Expenses                                   
SURPLUS/DEFICIT                                     
 
      2.   Phasing Plan: The phasing plan shall be developed in consideration
of the financing plan and shall include at a minimum:
         a.   A map of anticipated phase line boundaries for the entire planned
community;
         b.   A map of each anticipated phase including:
            (1)   Land use designations, including residential, mixed use,
commercial, public/quasi-public, natural open space and developed open space;
            (2)   Densities and nonresidential intensities;
            (3)   Anticipated internal street network, including arterials and
collectors; and
            (4)   Regional anticipated internal trail system, including trails
and trailheads.
         c.   A written assessment of the sequence of development including:
            (1)   Anticipated commencement and completion times of each phase;
            (2)   Distribution of land use designations;
            (3)   Total area of each phase and anticipated population;
            (4)   Implementation of urban public services by phase, including a
transition plan if required;
            (5)   Description on how each final plat is a self-supporting unit
as defined by this title; and
            (6)   How nonresidential uses and recreational opportunities will
be phased to keep pace with housing.
      3.   Wildlife And Habitat Management Plan: The wildlife and habitat
management plan shall utilize the natural resources and habitat inventory of
the adopted planned community comprehensive subarea plan to add impact
assessment and mitigation components and update it with the following
information:
         a.   A narrative of potential direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts
to natural resources, wildlife, and wildlife habitat within the project area,
including potential secondary impacts to all land within one mile of the
exterior boundary of the planned community;
         b.   Method (information and/or calculations) used to evaluate impacts
(e.g., buffers, mapping analysis, etc.);
         c.   Mitigation goals and measurable objectives with reference to the
impact(s) those goals are intended to mitigate;
         d.   A description of natural open space management;
         e.   A description of mitigation activities and implementation
measures including actions and methods to meet goals, time line and estimated
cost by development phase, management and monitoring plans, financing and
funding sources, and alternative/adaptive management strategies; and
         f.   A description of federal and state permitting requirements.
      4.   Community Design: The community design plan shall include a design
theme for each phase. A written assessment and illustrations shall be provided,
including, but not limited to, conceptual context sensitive cross sections for
the internal street network and any associated pedestrian improvements.
      5.   Urban Public Services Plan: A plan showing how the applicant intends
to meet each of the urban public service levels required in this code by phase,
including a transition plan if required.
      6.   Transportation: The previously approved traffic impact study shall
be updated with a phasing analysis. This phasing analysis shall include the
amount and type of proposed land uses within each phase and the anticipated
mitigation measures necessary with each phase. The developer shall submit a
comprehensive transportation demand management plan prepared in coordination
with ITD, ACHD and VRT.
      7.   Transition Plan: The board may consider a transition plan that
provides for a transition period from rural to urban service levels on a case
by case basis. In those instances where the applicant proposes to meet urban
public service level standards by providing programmed urban public facilities
and/or programmed urban public services, a specific provision in the
development agreement must be included, allowing no more than one year after
approval of the implementation plan in which to have the specific facilities or
services included in a district's capital improvements or service provision
program. This transition plan may include advance payment of taxes for
programmed urban public services and/or proportionate share payments for
programmed urban public facilities.
   D.   Findings: In order to approve an implementation plan, the board must
make all of the following findings:
      1.   The implementation plan complies with the applicable comprehensive
plan;
      2.   The implementation plan demonstrates that urban public services will
be provided to the planned community;
      3.   The implementation plan demonstrates that the phasing of the planned
community will maintain the integrity of the planned community at the end of
each phase;
      4.   The implementation plan financing plan demonstrates financial
feasibility through planned community build-out;
      5.   The implementation plan demonstrates that the long term operations
and maintenance associated with urban public services will be adequately
funded;
      6.   The implementation plan adequately mitigates for any identified
impacts to natural resources and wildlife;
      7.   The implementation plan demonstrates that the planned community
effectively implements the required standards as found in section
8-8-5 of this chapter; and
      8.   The implementation plan provides for design themes consistent with
the community design goals of the planned community subarea comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 738, 2-23-2010; amd. Ord. 812, 8-14-2013)
8-8-9: ANNEXATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: To set standards for addition of acreage to a planned
community; to allow for the updating of a planned community subarea
comprehensive plan and a planned community implementation plan to cover
additional land added to the planned community; to describe the application
process; and to allow a streamlined process under appropriate conditions.
   B.   Application Process:
      1.   All applications for the addition of incremental acreage to an
existing planned community, which planned community was approved after the
effective date hereof, shall be processed in compliance with the processes
listed in sections
8-8-7 and
8-8-8 of this chapter.
         a.   If, in the discretion of the director, the addition of acreage to
an existing planned community is found to pose minimal effect on the planned
community comprehensive subarea plan, the planned community implementation
plan, and to the region, then the planned community subarea comprehensive plan
amendment application and the planned community subarea implementation plan
amendment application may be processed concurrently.
         b.   If, in the discretion of the director, the addition of acreage to
an existing planned community is found to pose material effect on the planned
community comprehensive subarea plan, the planned community implementation
plan, and to the region, then the planned community subarea comprehensive plan
amendment and the planned community implementation plan amendment applications
must be processed sequentially.
      2.   All applications for the addition of incremental acreage to an
existing planned community, which planned community was approved prior to the
effective date hereof, require, as a prerequisite, that a planned community
subarea comprehensive plan and a planned community implementation plan be
created and approved for the planned community. Applications for the addition
of acreage shall thereafter be processed in compliance with this section.
   C.   Application Requirements:
      1.   The applicant shall update the planned community subarea
comprehensive plan reports, reviews, and analyses in compliance with subsection
8-8-7C of this chapter. The applicant may use the adopted planned community
subarea comprehensive plan goals and policies as appropriate.
      2.   The applicant shall update the planned community subarea
comprehensive plan goals and policies according to subsection
8-8-7D of this chapter.
      3.   The applicant shall update the planned community implementation plan
in compliance with subsection
8-8-8C of this chapter.
   D.   Required Findings: In order to add incremental acreage to an existing
planned community the board of Ada County commissioners must make all of the
following findings:
      1.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan adequately addresses the future housing needs of the
Boise metropolitan area and Ada County population growth;
      2.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan adequately addresses the educational needs of the
proposed population;
      3.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan is reasonably supported by economic and market
conditions in Ada County and the Boise metropolitan area;
      4.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned
community subarea plan adequately provides for a mixture of land uses
including, but not limited to, low cost housing;
      5.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan adequately protects fish, wildlife, and recreation
resources;
      6.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan adequately avoids undue water and air pollution;
      7.   The updated comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that
planned community subarea plan ensures that important environmental features
are protected;
      8.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan adequately protects life and property in areas subject
to natural hazards and disasters;
      9.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned
community subarea plan encourages the protection of prime agricultural,
forestry, and mining lands for production of food, fiber, and minerals;
      10.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned
community subarea plan ensures that the land development is consistent with the
physical characteristics of the land;
      11.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan adequately addresses urban public services;
      12.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned
community subarea plan ensures that adequate transportation facilities and
services are provided for the planned community subarea;
      13.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned
community subarea plan adequately addresses the needs of the regional
transportation network;
      14.   Growth in the proposed planned community subarea will not adversely
impact existing regional conditions; and
      15.   The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned
community subarea plan contains the comprehensive plan components required by
subsection
8-8-7D of this chapter.
      16.   The implementation plan complies with the applicable comprehensive
plan;
      17.   The implementation plan demonstrates that urban public services
will be provided to the planned community;
      18.   The implementation plan demonstrates that the phasing of the
planned community will maintain the integrity of the planned community at the
end of each phase;
      19.   The implementation plan financing plan demonstrates financial
feasibility through planned community build out;
      20.   The implementation plan demonstrates that the long term operations
and maintenance associated with urban public services will be adequately
funded;
      21.   The implementation plan adequately mitigates for any identified
impacts to natural resources and wildlife;
      22.   The implementation plan demonstrates that the planned community
effectively implements the required standards as found in section
8-8-5 of this chapter; and
      23.   The implementation plan provides for design themes consistent with
the community design goal(s) of the planned community subarea comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 738, 2-23-2010)
 
CHAPTER 21
PLANNED COMMUNITY DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. HIDDEN SPRINGS PLANNED COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE
SECTION:
8-21A-1: Short Title
8-21A-2: Definitions
8-21A-3: Purpose And Intent
8-21A-4: Applicability
8-21A-5: Permitted Residential And Nonresidential Uses
8-21A-6: Development And Design Guidelines
8-21A-7: Administrative/Other Regulations
8-21A-8: Amendments
8-21A-9: Specific Plan
8-21A-9-1:Vision Statement
8-21A-9-2:Goals, Objectives And Policies
8-21A-9-3:Population And Development Trends
8-21A-9-4:Population Projections
8-21A-9-5:Existing Conditions Overview
8-21A-9-6:Vicinity Map
8-21A-9-7:Historical Overview
8-21A-9-8:Slopes
8-21A-9-9:Aspect/Views/Climate
8-21A-9-10:Geologic Conditions
8-21A-9-11:Soil Conditions
8-21A-9-12:Surface Water Hydrology
8-21A-9-13:Ground Water
8-21A-9-14:Geotechnical Characterization
8-21A-9-15:Vegetation
8-21A-9-16:Wildlife Resources
8-21A-9-17:Cultural Resources
8-21A-9-18:Land Use Patterns
8-21A-9-19:Site Analysis: Summary Of Opportunities And Constraints
8-21A-9-20:Central Planning Concepts
8-21A-9-21:Plan Overview
8-21A-9-22:Phasing Plan
8-21A-9-23:Roads And Circulation
8-21A-9-24:Traffic Strategy
8-21A-9-25:Trip Reduction Strategy
8-21A-9-26:Open Space And Trails Strategy
8-21A-9-27:Wildfire Prevention Strategy
8-21A-9-28:Wildlife Strategy
8-21A-9-29:Water Supply
8-21A-9-30:Water System
8-21A-9-31:Water Quality Management
8-21A-9-32:Water Conservation
8-21A-9-33:Sewer System
8-21A-9-34:Storm Drainage System
8-21A-9-35:Sheriff, Fire And Emergency Medical Services
8-21A-9-36:Landscape Strategy
8-21A-9-37:Essential Public Services And Anticipated Financing Plan
8-21A-9-38:Zoning Map
8-21A-9-39:Hidden Springs Legal Description
8-21A-10: Design Requirements
8-21A-10-1:Purpose And Intent Statement
8-21A-10-2:Architecture
8-21A-10-3:Site Design
8-21A-10-4:Site Grading And Drainage
8-21A-10-5:Landscape Design
8-21A-10-6:Signage
8-21A-10-7:Lighting
8-21A-10-8:Fences And Walls
8-21A-10-9:Wildlife Conservation
8-21A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known, cited and referred to as the HIDDEN SPRINGS
PLANNED COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and construction
of the Hidden Springs planned community zoning ordinance; words used in the
present tense include the future; the singular number shall include the plural
and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall include the word
"structure", the word "used" shall include "arranged", "designed",
"constructed", "altered", "converted", "rented", "leased", or "intended to be
used", and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory. Any term used in
this article not defined herein, shall have the meaning set forth in chapter 1,
article A of this title. Any term not defined herein or in chapter 1, article A
of this title, shall have its plain and ordinary meaning.
ACCESSORY APARTMENT OR GUEST HOUSE: A fully functional living unit including a
kitchen, bathroom, etc., which may be rented for income, provide residence in
barter for personal services, or accommodate a family member who wishes to live
in a separate structure on the same lot.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use, building or structure that is customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted use or approved
administrative permit use, and is conducted or located upon the same lot.
ADMINISTRATIVE: Pertaining to the performance of executive duties or directing
the execution, application or conduct of duties of an office, business or
institution.
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT: A permit issued by the director for administrative
permit uses specified in subsection
8-21A-7E of this article.
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT USE: A use or occupancy of a structure, or a use of land,
permitted only upon issuance of an administrative permit and subject to the
limitations and conditions specified therein.
AFFECTED PERSON: Same meaning as is ascribed to such term by Idaho Code section
67-6521, as amended from time to time.
AGRICULTURAL COMMERCIAL OVERLAY: Those areas depicted upon the Hidden Springs
zoning map where agricultural commercial uses, as detailed in subsection
8-21A-5C2 of this article, are permitted.
AGRICULTURAL COMMERCIAL USE: Those principal permitted and administrative
permit agricultural commercial uses described in subsection
8-21A-5C2 of this article.
AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION AREA: That area depicted upon the Hidden Springs
master land use plan map.
AGRICULTURAL OUTBUILDINGS: Any building or structure which is used for storage
or shelter of farming materials, equipment, supplies, products or animals.
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in
performing animal husbandry or horticultural services, including agricultural
milling and processing, harvesting, agricultural land preparation, irrigation
and farm equipment sales and service, veterinary services, boarding or training
of horses, and agricultural produce stands.
AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS: The growing of cultivated crops, fruit
trees, berry bushes, grazing, pasturage, raising of domestic livestock,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and the necessary accessory uses for
packing, treating or storing of produce. The operation of any accessory uses to
agricultural purposes shall not include a commercial packing facility, feedlot
or stockyard, the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other
animals, a slaughterhouse, the operation of a fertilizer works, nor plants for
the reduction of animal matter.
ALLEY: A public or private way affording only secondary means of access to
abutting property at the back or side of a property.
ANIMAL CLINIC OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion thereof designed or
used for the care or treatment of cats, dogs or other animals in which
veterinary services including clipping, bathing, boarding and other services
are rendered to dogs, cats and other small animals and domestic pets. Small
animal hospital or veterinary hospital is the same as a small animal or
veterinary clinic, the distinction being that in the case of an animal hospital
there is a licensed veterinarian on the premises.
APPLICANT: Any owner or person with a proprietary interest in real property
within the boundaries of the Hidden Springs Planned Community who submits any
application under this Article.
ARTICLE: This Hidden Springs Planned Community Zoning Ordinance.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building between the floor and ceiling which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from grade to the floor below is less than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling. A basement, when used for dwelling purposes, shall be counted as a
story for purposes of height measurement, and as a half-story for purposes of
side yard determination.
BARN: Any structure used to house domestic livestock.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: A building where meals and/or lodging are
provided for compensation to three (3) or more persons, but not more than
twelve (12) persons, and who are not members of the householder's family.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Ada County, Idaho.
BOARD CHAIRMAN: Chairman of the Ada County Board of County Commissioners.
BOARDER: See definition of Roomers And Boarders.
BUILDING: Any structure securely affixed to the land, and having a roof
supported by columns or walls, and entirely separated on all sides from any
other structure by space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors,
windows or openings, which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure
or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   Building Coverage: The total allowable percentage of a lot that may be
covered by a building or buildings.
   Building Envelope: Areas of land within which all site disturbances
(construction of buildings, sitework, etc.) shall be conducted.
   Building Height: The vertical distance from the average contact ground level
at the front wall of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat
roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level between
eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   Building Massing: The three-dimensional (3-D) bulk and scale of a building.
   Building Site: The ground area of a building or group of buildings together
with all open spaces as required by this Article.
CAFE: See definition of Restaurant.
CLINIC: A building, other than a hospital, used by one or more licensed
physicians, dentists or licensed health care professionals for the purpose of
receiving and treating patients.
CLUB, LODGE OR SOCIAL HALL: The social use of a building or of any premises by
a profit or nonprofit association.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT OR CLUSTERING: Clustering of buildings, garages, and drives
to minimize site disruption and/or maximize open space. Clustering techniques
may include, but are not limited to, shared driveways, key or flag lots, and
cul-de-sacs.
COMMERCIAL STABLE AND RIDING SCHOOLS: For profit stables and horse riding
schools.
COMMERCIAL USE: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling
or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for livelihood or profit,
or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices, recreational or
amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of offices by professions and
trades rendering services including all advertising, events and other
activities associated with such commercial use.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of Ada County, Idaho.
COMMON AREAS: Those areas which are used, owned or managed jointly by a group
of residences, businesses or association(s). Common areas include, but are not
limited to, open spaces, parking areas, pathways, and parks.
COMMUNITY CENTER: That portion of Hidden Springs more particularly described in
subsection
8-21A-5C3 of this Article which is intended to include the recreational and
community service uses that will form the social hub of the community.
COMMUNITY EVENT: Any temporary event within Hidden Springs including, without
limitation, picnics, barbecues, holiday events and parties, dances, concerts,
bike rides and races, foot races and walks, auctions and sales, bazaars, sales
or marketing events and harvest festivals and events.
   Community Event, Private: Any event for or by Hidden Springs residents and/
or owners and their respective guests, in which participation is by invitation
only and not by public advertisements; provided however, all real estate sales
and marketing events and activities including, without limitation, model homes
being advertised and open to the general public and real estate "open houses"
advertised to the general public, normal and customary educational, religious
and other activities conducted at schools and churches and commercial uses and
activities on the premises of commercial businesses advertised to the general
public shall be classified as private community events and not as public
community events.
   Community Event, Public: Any event for the public at large which is
advertised to the general public other than private community events described
above.
CONDOMINIUM: A condominium within Hidden Springs shall have the same meaning as
set forth in Idaho Code section 55-101B, as the same is amended and modified
from time to time, and as further defined and described in the Idaho
Condominium Property Act.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A home, place or institution licensed by the Idaho State
Department of Health and Welfare as a nursing home which operates or maintains
facilities providing convalescence or chronic care or both for a period in
excess of twenty four (24) consecutive hours for three (3) or more patients not
related by blood or marriage to the operator, said patients who by reason of
illness or infirmity are unable to properly care for themselves.
CORRAL: See definition of Paddock, Pasture Or Corral.
COUNTY: Ada County, Idaho.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for public use,
charitable, religious or educational purposes, including the granting of any
and all conservation easements.
DIRECTOR: The Ada County Director of Development Services or an authorized
representative thereof.
DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK: Horses, cattle, dairy animals, sheep, goats, and other
grazing animals, excluding swine. It shall also include rabbits and domestic
birds, excluding chickens. Domestic livestock also excludes such birds as are
caged and housed inside the dwelling and are not raised for commercial use.
DRAINAGE: The removal of excess waters from land by means of surface or
subsurface conduits.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or truck
stop, which is designed to encourage or permit customers to receive services,
obtain goods, or be entertained, while remaining in their motor vehicles.
DUPLEX: A building of no more than two (2) stories in height designed for or
used by two (2) families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the residence or
as separate living quarters of one or more persons, but not including a tent,
trailer or a room in a hotel, motel, or bed and breakfast establishment.
   Dwelling, Multi-Family: A building or portion thereof designed for or used
by three (3) or more families or housekeeping units.
   Dwelling, Single-Family: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
EASEMENT: A right to use, falling short of ownership, and usually for a certain
stated purpose.
EMPLOYMENT CENTERS: The contemplated Hidden Springs employment facilities more
particularly described in subsection
8-21A-5C6 of this Article.
ENGINEER, COUNTY: That licensed professional engineer appointed by the Board.
EQUESTRIAN CENTER: The Hidden Springs equestrian facility more particularly
described in subsection
8-21A-5C4 of this Article.
ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES: As provided in the Ada County Comprehensive Plan
these shall include, but are not limited to, water systems, public safety
services, wastewater collection and treatment systems, storm water detention
and drainage facilities and structures, public schools, streets, roads and open
space.
FAR: Floor to Area Ratio.
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FAMILY: A person living alone, or two (2) or more persons living together as a
single housekeeping unit, in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group
occupying a bed and breakfast establishment, boarding house, lodging house,
motel or hotel.
FAMILY DAY CARE HOME: "Family day care home" shall have the same meaning as
ascribed to it in Idaho Code section 39-1102, as amended from time to time.
FARM/RANCH LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection
8-21A-5B1 of this Article.
FLOOD PLAIN: In this Article, flood plain refers to the 100-year flood plain as
defined by the Federal Emergency Management Act ("FEMA"), and as otherwise
defined in this Title.
FREESTANDING GARAGE OR STORAGE STRUCTURE: An enclosed building designed for
private storage or parking of noncommercial vehicles.
GRADE: The elevation of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
midpoint of any exterior wall of a building or structure.
GRAIN STORAGE FACILITY: Any facility used to store any harvested crop.
GREENHOUSE: A building whose roof and sides are made largely of transparent or
translucent material and in which the temperature and humidity can be regulated
for the cultivation of plants, for private use or public sale.
GROUP DAY CARE FACILITY: Group day care facility shall have the same meaning as
ascribed to it in Idaho Code section 39-1102, as amended from time to time.
GUEST HOUSE: See definition of Accessory Apartment.
HEALTH CLUB FACILITY: Any facility providing exercise services to its
customers.
HIDDEN SPRINGS DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE OR DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE: That certain
design review committee (DRC) referenced in the design guidelines approved as a
part of the Hidden Springs Specific Plan.
HIDDEN SPRINGS GREENWAY: That area adjacent to Dry Creek which is dedicated to,
and for the use of the public.
HIDDEN SPRINGS HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The Idaho nonprofit or profit
corporation whose members or stockholders consist exclusively of property
owners within Hidden Springs and whose purpose is to provide for the
administration and governance of the affairs of Hidden Springs.
HIDDEN SPRINGS MASTER LAND USE PLAN: See definition of Master Land Use Plan.
HIDDEN SPRINGS OR HIDDEN SPRINGS PLANNED COMMUNITY: That area depicted on the
Hidden Springs Zoning Map, as amended from time to time.
HIDDEN SPRINGS SPECIFIC PLAN: The Hidden Springs Specific Plan consists of the
goals, objectives, policies, maps (such as sketch plan maps), development
standards/administration provisions and other components of the Hidden Springs
application for a planned rural community which have been adopted by the Board,
and which shall serve as a guide for development. A copy of the approved Hidden
Springs Specific Plan is on file with the Ada County Development Services
Department.
HIDDEN SPRINGS ZONING MAP OR ZONING MAP: Map depicting the Hidden Springs
Planned Community boundary and the zoning districts and overlay districts
within this boundary.
HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory use to a dwelling unit for gainful employment
involving the manufacture, provision or sale of goods and/or services.
KENNEL: Any facility used for the boarding or training of domestic animals.
LARGE LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection
8-21A-5B3 of this Article.
LODGE: See definition of Club, Lodge Or Social Hall.
LOT: A parcel of land which meets any of the lot requirements of this Article
for use, design and dimensional standards and is for transfer of ownership or
development, including, but not limited to, condominiums. Such parcel of land
may be developed if it complies with all applicable provisions of this Article.
   Lot, Depth: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines. Where the lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line
shall be deemed to be a line at a point where the side lot lines are not less
than ten feet (10') apart.
   Lot Line, Front: The line separating the lot from the principal street on
which it fronts.
   Lot Line, Rear: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
   Lot Line, Side: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is also called a side street or flanking
street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is
also called an interior side lot line.
   Lot, Lines: The property lines bounding the lot.
   Lot, Width: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth,
provided however, that the minimum lot width required in each district shall be
measured at a distance from the front line equal to the required least depth of
the front yard.
MASTER DEVELOPER: Grossman Family Properties, or its assigns.
MASTER LAND USE PLAN: The Plan contained within the Hidden Springs Specific
Plan which depicts residential uses, nonresidential uses, and nonresidential
overlays.
MEETING HALL: See definition of Community Center.
MODEL HOME: A single-family dwelling or a unit within a duplex or multi-family
dwelling which is shown to prospective buyers of lots or dwellings for the
purpose of promoting the retail sale of lots or dwellings within Hidden
Springs.
NURSERY: Land and/or greenhouses used to raise flowers, shrubs and plants, for
private use or public sale on site. The combined floor area for all structures
used for retail sales may not exceed two thousand (2,000) square feet.
OPEN SPACE: The area depicted on the Hidden Springs Master Land Use Plan as
described in subsection
8-21A-5C5 of this Article which shall remain open and free of development other
than wildlife habitat improvements, trails, other recreational improvements and
agricultural uses; provided however, that changes in the boundaries of the open
space are acceptable as long as the total acreage of the open space does not
decrease below eight hundred ten (810) acres.
PADDOCK, PASTURE OR CORRAL: A small enclosure near a stable where horses are
exercised.
PARCEL: A contiguous unit of land owned by, or recorded as, the property of the
same person or persons.
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: The division for conveyance of a lot or parcel of
land for the purpose of adjusting the boundary between parcels where: the
dimensions of the parcels are not reduced below the minimum dimensional
standards for its applicable zone; there is no increase in the original number
of parcels; and, no easements, public streets, private streets or publicly
dedicated areas are affected. A parcel boundary adjustment shall not move or
affect the location of any platted lot line.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITY: Facility designed to allow Hidden Springs residents to
park their vehicles in order to car pool or ride in a van or bus to various
locations throughout the Treasure Valley, usually, however, to work.
PARKING AREA (PRIVATE): An open area, other than a street or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger
automobiles of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING AREA OR LOT (PUBLIC): An open area, other than a street or public way,
to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable passenger
automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for
compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A usable space within a public or private parking area or a
building of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet, either within a
structure or in the open for the parking of motor vehicles.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure designed and used for vehicular parking and
located near the building which it serves.
PASTURE: See definition of Paddock, Pasture Or Corral.
PERSONAL SERVICE RETAIL: Retail oriented towards personal services.
PHASED DEVELOPMENT: Each individual phase of development as such phase is
submitted for preliminary plat and/or final plat approval.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision or other tract of land,
or a replatting of such, including certifications, descriptions and approvals
and containing those elements and requirements set forth in subsection
8-21A-7C2d of this Article.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat of a subdivision containing the elements
and requirements set forth in subsection
8-21A-7C2a through
8-21A-7C2c of this Article.
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE: The main use of land or a building as distinguished
from a subordinate or accessory use.
PUBLIC AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT USES: Public and community support uses shall
include, without limitation, community centers, post office facilities,
churches, schools, public structures, recreational and health club facilities
and day care facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way open to the public.
PUBLIC STRUCTURE: Any structure designed for the benefit and use of the public.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, entity or municipal department, duly authorized to
furnish to the public under public regulation, electricity, gas, steam,
telephone, transportation, water, cable television or other services.
PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE: Any structure utilized by a public utility.
RANCH LOTS: See definition of Farm/Ranch Lots.
RECREATION FACILITY: A commercial or nonprofit swimming pool, park, fitness
center, public gathering place or other use designed for amusement or
recreation.
REGULAR LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection
8-21A-5B4 of this Article.
RESTAURANT: Any building, or part thereof, other than a bed and breakfast
establishment, where meals and/or beverages are provided for compensation,
including, among others, such uses as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom,
tearoom, soda shop and dining room.
RETAIL STORE: A store which sells commodities in small quantities to consumers,
such as a general store, hardware store, bookstore, etc.
ROAD: See definition of Street.
ROADSIDE STAND: A booth or stall temporarily located on a farm or other lot
from which produce and farm products are sold to the general public.
ROOMERS OR BOARDERS: Persons paying remuneration for eating and sleeping within
a residence.
RURAL LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection
8-21A-5B2 of this Article.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE: An institution of learning either publicly or
privately supported.
SERVICE STATION: A filling station or business enterprise using the premises
primarily to sell and supply motor fuel and lubricating oils and grease to on
premises trade, including the sale of tires, batteries, automotive accessories,
together with other related services, including minor motor vehicle repair. May
also include convenience retail use, not to include a drive-in establishment.
SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open, either by the front, side
and rear yard requirements of this article, or by the delineation on a recorded
plat map, or recorded covenants.
SHARED DRIVEWAYS: A twenty foot (20') wide private shared access that serves no
less than two (2) nor more than four (4) single- family parcels or lots.
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as a tree, rock, bush and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant,
insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of an
announcement, direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition,
the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation,
state, city or other political unit, or any political, educational, charitable,
philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like campaign, drive, movement
or event.
SITE DISTURBANCE: Any change in the natural character of Hidden Springs as it
exists at the date of adoption of this article, such as occurs during
construction, landscaping, etc.
SKETCH PLAN: A less detailed development elaboration than a preliminary plat
used in conjunction with a preapplication conference as described in subsection
8-21A-7B of this article. A sketch plan may include maps, charts, goals,
objectives, policies and other information.
SLOPE: The number of feet rise or fall per one hundred feet (100') horizontal
distance, divided by one hundred (100) and expressed as a percentage.
SOCIAL HALL: See definition of Club, Lodge Or Social Hall.
STABLE: A structure used or designed for the keeping, boarding, riding and/or
care of horses.
STORAGE FACILITY OR STORAGE STRUCTURE: Any storage facility or structure used
for the storage or parking (long term or short term) of, without limitation,
vehicles, agricultural and recreational vehicles, boats and other watercraft,
snowmobiles, equipment, and machinery.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above, then the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of a story
exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as an additional
story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof. If the finished floor
level directly above a basement or cellar is more than six feet (6') above
grade, such basement or cellar shall be considered a story.
STREET: A public right of way officially accepted by the Ada County highway
district or other appropriate government agency. The term "street" shall
include "avenue", "drive", "circle", "road", "parkway", "boulevard", "highway",
"thoroughfare" or any other similar term.
   Street, Cul-De-Sac: A dead end street provided with a turnaround at its
terminus.
   Street, Island: A block in a subdivision located in the street.
   Street, Major: A major street is a thoroughfare that is or will be used for
fast and/or heavy traffic, when designated as such by the Ada County highway
district or director.
   Street, Private: Any parcel of land used for a street, road, lane or way or
similar designation which is not maintained by, or dedicated to the Ada County
highway district or other appropriate government agency, and used exclusively
for the benefit of private individuals or associations.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building, such
as walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent location
on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent location on the
ground, provided fences not exceeding forty eight inches (48") in height shall
not be deemed a structure.
SUBDIVISION: A.Lot Or Parcel Division: The division of a lot or parcel of land
into two (2) or more sublots or subparcels for the purpose of transfer of
ownership, or for building development.
   B.   Exceptions: The following divisions of land shall not constitute a
subdivision:
      1.   Parcel boundary adjustment as provided in this article.
      2.   A court decree dividing a lot or parcel of land into separate,
distinct ownership in the distribution of property provided that such lot or
parcel provides for proper access to streets as enunciated in this title.
      3.   The division of land as a result of condemnation, as defined and
allowed in the Idaho Code.
      4.   The expansion or acquisition of street rights of way by a public
agency, in compliance with an adopted general development plan.
      5.   A conveyance of raw land as contemplated in subsection
8-21A-4E of this article.
SURVEYOR, COUNTY: That licensed professional land surveyor appointed by the
board to check plats and monuments for compliance with platting and surveying
laws, provide for surveying monument records and make such surveys,
descriptions, maps and plats as ordered by the board.
SWIMMING POOL: A receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water having a
depth at any point of more than two feet (2') intended for the purpose of
immersion or partial immersion therein of persons.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises, not including restaurants.
TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: See definition of Accessory Apartment Or Guesthouse.
TEMPORARY SALES OFFICE: That particular sales office(s), wherever located, used
primarily for the wholesale or retail sales of property or lots located within
Hidden Springs.
TOT LOTS: Any playground facility designed for use by children five (5) years
of age and younger.
TOWNHOME LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection
8-21A-5B6 of this article.
UNPLATTED PROPERTY USE: Those principal permitted and administrative permit
uses described in subsection
8-21A-5C7 of this article.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designated, arranged
or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
UTILITIES: Facilities for service to, and used by the public.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
VILLAGE COMMERCIAL OVERLAY: Those areas depicted upon the Hidden Springs zoning
map where village commercial uses, as detailed in subsection
8-21A-5C1 of this article, are permitted.
VILLAGE COMMERCIAL USE: Those principal permitted and administrative permit use
village commercial uses described in subsection
8-21A-5C1 of this article.
VILLAGE HOME LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection
8-21A-5B5 of this article.
WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM: An installation which collects and
treats domestic wastewater and utilizes at a minimum subsurface disposal or
effluent and which conforms to the rules, regulations and adopted plans of the
health authority.
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: An approved water supply system which provides a domestic
water supply meeting local, state and federal drinking water standards and fire
flow requirements.
WILDLIFE AREA: An area specifically designated for wildlife and big game winter
range. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998; amd. Ord. 793, 12-7-
2011)
8-21A-3: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Generally, this article is enacted with the purpose and intent of promoting, on
behalf of the Hidden Springs planned community, public health, safety, comfort
and general welfare; to conserve and control the population density and to
facilitate adequate and economical provisions for public improvements, all in
accordance with the Hidden Springs specific plan for the desirable future
physical development of Hidden Springs; and to provide a method of
administration, all as authorized by the Ada County comprehensive plan, the Ada
County zoning ordinance, the state legislature, and the constitution of the
state.
Specifically, the purpose and intent of this article is to set forth the
development standards and administrative procedures for implementing the land
use policies of the Hidden Springs specific plan. Furthermore, it is the
purpose of this article to:
   A.   Provide for the design of quality, mixed use development within the
Hidden Springs planned community;
   B.   Provide distinctive, efficient and effective regulations to guide
development in Hidden Springs;
   C.   Encourage flexibility and creativity in Hidden Springs' design and
development in order to respond to market demand and site specific conditions
while enhancing the economic viability and quality of Hidden Springs;
   D.   Encourage creative and innovative land planning and design processes
throughout Hidden Springs which are sensitive to existing environmental
conditions;
   E.   Provide for the integration and balance of a variety of uses in Hidden
Springs;
   F.   Establish responsibility for the development of essential public
services throughout Hidden Springs and the specific mechanisms by which they
will be provided, created and financed;
   G.   Provide for phased and orderly development of Hidden Springs utilizing
consistent criteria;
   H.   Provide flexibility for reconfiguration of residential and
nonresidential uses and/or population density as long as these reconfigurations
do not conflict with the overall intent of the Hidden Springs specific plan and
this article;
   I.   Establish the permitted uses and minimum standards for each category of
residential and nonresidential use;
   J.   Identify and define standards for uses which may occur in each of the
land use categories;
   K.   Establish a review and approval process for the development of Hidden
Springs. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-4: APPLICABILITY:
This article governs the development and administration of the Hidden Springs
planned community, as shown on the Hidden Springs zoning map and the Hidden
Springs master land use plan. Where issues arise that are not covered under
this article, or where this article specifically references other sections of
this code, such other sections of this code shall apply and govern. This
article shall not apply to any land not incorporated within the Hidden Springs
planned community boundary.
   A.   Scope And Content: This article shall consist of the text hereof and
the Hidden Springs zoning map 1 , identified herewith, which zoning map is now
filed in the office of the recorder of Ada County and in the Ada County
development services department. For the purpose of administration and
enforcement, the zoning map in the Ada County development services department
shall be considered as an official zoning map. Any and all amendments to the
Hidden Springs zoning map shall be made concurrently on the zoning map in the
Ada County development services department and made concurrently with the
amendment being recorded with the Ada County recorder.
The approved Hidden Springs specific plan, as it may be amended, is now filed
in the office of the Ada County development services department.
   B.   Flexibility: The development standards and design guidelines contained
in the Hidden Springs specific plan, including, without limitation, the master
land use plan, and this article are intended to depict the general nature and
relative intensity of residential and nonresidential development in Hidden
Springs, while allowing sufficient flexibility at the time of detailed planning
and platting so that the overall goals and policies and purpose and intent of
the Hidden Springs planned community can be achieved. The configuration and
densities of development parcels and phases may be altered from those shown on
the Hidden Springs master land use plan to accommodate market, financing, site
and other conditions and revisions to the project's implementation strategy
providing that the reconfiguration does not conflict with the zoning map,
specific restrictions contained within subsection
8-21A-5E of this article, or the general intent of the Hidden Springs specific
plan and this article. Residential uses and density may also be transferred
between development parcels as depicted on the master land use plan providing
this transfer does not conflict with the zoning map, specific restrictions
contained within subsection
8-21A-5E of this article, or the general intent of the Hidden Springs specific
plan and this article. The responsibility for such interpretation shall rest
with the director.
   C.   Conflict Of Laws: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this article shall be exclusive requirements under this code for
development within Hidden Springs.
   D.   Codification: This article shall be codified in this code.
   E.   Phased Development: This article is intended to regulate all
development and improvement of Hidden Springs, but is not intended to regulate
the bulk sale and conveyance of raw land to subdevelopers. Subdevelopers
intending to develop land within Hidden Springs, or any portion thereof, are
subject to the Hidden Springs specific plan and this article.
   F.   Changes To Hidden Springs Property Boundary: From time to time, the
Hidden Springs property boundary may change due to additions of property into,
or transfer of property out of, the Hidden Springs planned community. To the
extent any maps or figures contained within this article contain an outline of
the boundary of the Hidden Springs planned community, such depiction shall be
for illustrative purposes only.
Since the adoption of the maps and acreages set forth in this article, the
county has approved the following applications adjusting the boundaries of the
Hidden Springs planned community:
      1.   File no. 05-17-PBA (Forsythe property boundary adjustment).
      2.   Project no. 200700159-PBA (Rebecca Gillet property boundary
adjustment).
      3.   Project no. 20070208-2C-ZOA-PBA (removing 23 acres from Hidden
Springs planned community boundary and adding the acres to the Cartwright Ranch
planned community). (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 697, 8-26-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-21A-9-38 of this article.
8-21A-5: PERMITTED RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL USES:
A.   Zoning:
      1.   Zoning Districts: For purposes of this Article, the Hidden Springs
Planned Community is hereby divided into the following zoning districts and
overlay districts as shown on the Zoning Map:
 
Zoning Districts
 HS-R  Hidden Springs Residential Zone
 HS-V  Hidden Springs Village Zone
Overlay Districts
 HS-VC Hidden Springs Village Commercial
 HS-AC Hidden Springs Agricultural Commercial
 HS-EC Hidden Springs Employment Center
 
      2.   Allowed Uses Within Zoning Districts: Within the zoning districts
and overlay districts described above, the following uses shall be allowed:
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         a.   Hidden Springs Residential Zone (HS-R) Allowed Uses:
(1)  Farm/ranch lots                      (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5B1)
(2)  Rural lots                           (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5B2)
(3)  Large lots                           (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5B3)
(4)  Regular lots                         (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5B4)
(5)  Village home lots                    (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5B5)
(6)  Town home lots                       (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5B6)
(7)  Equestrian center                    (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5C4)
(8)  Open space/parks                     (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5C5)
(9)  Unplatted property use               (See subsection
                                           8-21A-5C7)
(10) Community event, private and public  (See subsection
                                           8-21A-7G)
(11) Essential public services            (See subsection
                                           8-21A-2)
 
         b.   Hidden Springs Village Zone (HS-V) Allowed Uses:
(1) Regular lots                         (See subsection
                                          8-21A-5B4)
(2) Village home lots                    (See subsection
                                          8-21A-5B5)
(3) Town home lots                       (See subsection
                                          8-21A-5B6)
(4) Community center/school              (See subsection
                                          8-21A-5C3)
(5) Open space/parks                     (See subsection
                                          8-21A-5C5)
(6) Unplatted property use               (See subsection
                                          8-21A-5C7)
(7) Community event, private and public  (See subsection
                                          8-21A-7G)
(8) Essential public services            (See subsection
                                          8-21A-2)
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998)
         c.   Hidden Springs Village Commercial Overlay (HS-VC) Allowed Uses:
Those uses allowed pursuant to subsection
8-21A-5C1 of this Section.
         d.   Hidden Springs Agricultural Commercial Overlay (HS-AC) Allowed
Uses: Those uses allowed pursuant to subsection
8-21A-5C2 of this Section.
         e.   Hidden Springs Employment Center Overlay (HS-EC) Allowed Uses:
Those uses allowed pursuant to subsection
8-21A-5C6 of this Section and approved pursuant to the requirements of
subsection
8-21A-7G of this Article.
      3.   Purpose Of Zoning Map And Master Land Use Plan: While the Zoning Map
depicts the zoning districts' and overlay districts' boundaries within Hidden
Springs, the Master Land Use Plan contained within the Specific Plan depicts
the general nature and relative intensity of residential and nonresidential
development and uses within these zoning districts and overlay districts
subject to the appropriate flexibility and other standards discussed in
subsection
8-21A-4B and elsewhere in this Article.
   B.   Residential Uses: The following is a detailed description of all
residential lots, including their principal permitted uses, accessory uses,
administrative permit uses, prohibited uses, characteristics, standards and
special conditions.
      1.   Farm/Ranch Lots:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2072.png]
 
         a.   Description: Farm/ranch lots are "agricultural style" lots
adjacent to the agricultural operations or open space in the most visible
portions of the Dry Creek Valley and adjoining hillsides. The lots are intended
to provide unique residential experiences in conjunction with carefully
controlled agricultural operations.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Agricultural operations (farming, grazing and/or gardening) as
defined herein.
            Family daycare home.
            Parks.
            School.
            Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory
structures.
            Temporary sales offices and model homes.
         c.   Accessory Uses:
            Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
            Agricultural outbuildings.
            Freestanding garages or storage structures.
            Home occupations.
            Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2).
            Swimming pools and tennis courts. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         d.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Bed and breakfast establishments.
            Clubs, lodges and social halls.
            Nurseries, grain storage facilities and related agricultural
structures.
            Public structures.
            Public utility structures.
            Roadside stands that sell agricultural products produced within the
project.
            Shop for repair of personal machinery, equipment and vehicles used
for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998)
         e.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         f.   Lot Characteristics:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               Minimum lot size: 1.5 acres.
               Minimum lot depth: 150 feet.
               Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
               Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet (50 feet for flag lots).
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front yard setback: 30 feet.
               Side yard setback: 3 feet minimum from lot line. For corner
lots, minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be 23 feet.
               Rear yard setback: 30 feet or 10 feet for garage.
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum building height: 35 feet.
               Maximum building coverage: 15 percent of lot. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
         g.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Building Envelopes: Shall be designated on every farm/ranch
lot. All site disturbance (construction of buildings, site work, etc.) shall be
contained within this envelope.
            (2)   Garages: Shall be screened and/or not prominent or highly
visible from adjoining street.
            (3)   Houses And Accessory Structures: Shall be sited to minimize
grading and shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is
limited to building envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is
more constraining.
            (4)   Building Massing: Shall step with the natural grade to
minimize exposed building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two
(2) stories plus roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear
of the lot.
            (5)   Floodplain: Significant portions of the farm lots located
along the valley floor fall within the 100-year floodplain. Development of
these lots shall comply with all FEMA and local floodplain regulations.
            (6)   Roadway: Farm/ranch lots fronting on Dry Creek Road or
Cartwright Road shall set back buildings as far as possible from these main
roadways. Additional techniques such as shared driveways, meandering driveways,
rear entry garages, agricultural style buildings, barns, etc., shall be
employed to maintain rural character along these roadways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2074.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2076.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2078.png]
 
      2.   Rural Lots:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2080.png]
 
         a.   Description: Rural lots are large lots intended to provide a
transition from farm lots to the village homes in the village center. They also
provide a large lot buffer between the village center and larger residential
lots and agricultural uses which adjoin the project site. These lots are
intended to provide a high degree of flexibility in transitioning from farm to
village character.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Family daycare home.
            Parks.
            School.
            Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory
structures.
            Temporary sales offices and model homes.
         c.   Accessory Uses:
            Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
            Freestanding garages or storage structures.
            Hobby greenhouses.
            Home occupations.
            Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2).
            Swimming pools and tennis courts.
         d.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Bed and breakfast establishments.
            Clubs, lodges and social halls.
            Public structures.
            Public utility structures.
            Roadside stands offering agricultural products produced within the
project.
         e.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         f.   Lot Characteristics:
            (1)   Dimensions:
            Minimum lot size: 1.5 acres.
            Minimum lot depth: 150 feet.
            Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
            Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet (50 feet for flag lots).
            (2)   Setbacks:
            Front yard setback: 30 feet.
            Side yard setback: 3 feet minimum from lot line. For corner lots,
minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be 23 feet.
            Rear yard setback: 30 feet or 10 feet for garage.
            (3)   Buildings:
            Maximum building height: 35 feet.
            Maximum building coverage: 15 percent of lot. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997;
amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
         g.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Building Envelopes: Shall be designated on every rural lot.
All site disturbance (construction of buildings, site work, etc.) shall be
contained within this envelope.
            (2)   Garages: Shall be screened and/or not prominent or highly
visible from adjoining street.
            (3)   Houses And Accessory Structures: Shall be sited to minimize
grading and shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is
limited to building envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is
more constraining.
            (4)   Twenty Foot Build To Street Edge: Rural lots fronting on Dry
Creek Road or Seaman's Gulch Road are intended to provide a smooth transition
from farm lots to village homes. Rural lots which directly front onto these
main roads shall have their primary residential building located within five
feet (5') of the front yard setback line to begin to establish the street
"edge" near the village center. Rural lots away from the village center and/or
off these main streets shall be set back farther and utilize techniques such as
shared driveways, meandering driveways, rear entry garages, agricultural style
buildings, barns, etc., to maintain rural character.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2082.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2084.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2086.png]
 
      3.   Large Lots:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2068.gif]
 
         a.   Description: Large lots are spacious lots generally intended to
be developed on the moderately sloped hillsides within the project site. These
lots vary in size and tend to be irregular in configuration in order to
minimize visual impact and conform to existing topography.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Family daycare home.
            Parks.
            Schools.
            Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory
structures.
            Temporary sales offices and model homes.
         c.   Accessory Uses:
            Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
            Freestanding garages or storage structures.
            Hobby greenhouses.
            Home occupations.
            Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2).
            Swimming pools and tennis courts.
         d.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Agricultural operations.
            Bed and breakfast establishments.
            Health club facilities.
            Public structures.
            Public utility structures.
            Roadside stands.
         e.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         f.   Lot Characteristics:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               Minimum lot size: 1/2 acre.
               Minimum lot depth: 120 feet.
               Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
               Minimum lot frontage: 50 feet (30 feet for flag lots).
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front yard setback: 20 feet.
               Side yard setback: 3 feet minimum from lot line. For corner
lots, minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be 18 feet.
               Rear yard setback: 20 feet or 10 feet for garage.
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum building height: 35 feet.
               Maximum building coverage: 30 percent of lot. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
         g.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Building Envelopes: Shall be designated on every large lot.
All site disturbance (construction of buildings, site work, etc.) shall be
contained within this envelope.
            (2)   Garages: Shall be side or rear entry. Garage doors shall not
directly face the street.
            (3)   Houses And Accessory Structures: Shall be sited to minimize
grading and shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is
limited to building envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is
more constraining.
            (4)   Sloped Banks: Facing the street shall not exceed a three to
one (3:1) gradient. Slopes shall not exceed seven feet (7') in height without a
horizontal terrace of a minimum depth of five feet (5').
            (5)   Building Massing: Shall step with the natural grade to
minimize exposed building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two
(2) stories plus roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear
of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2088.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2090.png]
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
      4.   Regular Lots:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2092.gif]
 
         a.   Description: Regular lots are generally intended to be developed
in the relatively flat "coves" and "side valleys" which are not as visible as
the main floor of Dry Creek Valley. These lots offer a more typical residential
site size and configuration to meet the portion of the market which may not be
attracted to the more unique lot types offered elsewhere in the project.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Family daycare home.
            Parks.
            Schools.
            Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and accessory
structures.
            Temporary sales office and model homes.
         c.   Accessory Uses:
            Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
            Freestanding garages or storage structures.
            Hobby greenhouses.
            Home occupations.
            Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2).
            Swimming pools and tennis courts.
         d.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Agricultural operations.
            Bed and breakfast establishments.
            Health club facilities.
            Public structures.
            Public utility structures.
         e.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified above. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997;
amd. Ord. 724, 3-11-2009)
         f.   Lot Characteristics:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               Minimum lot size: 12,000 square feet.
               Minimum lot depth: 120 feet.
               Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
               Minimum lot frontage: 50 feet (30 feet for flag lots).
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front yard setback: 20 feet. For side entry garages, minimum
front setback is 10 feet.
               Side yard setback: 3 feet minimum from lot line. For corner
lots, minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be 18 feet.
               Rear yard setback: 20 feet or 10 feet for garage.
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum building height: 35 feet.
               Maximum building coverage: 45 percent of lot. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 724, 3-11-2009)
         g.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Garages: Side or rear entry garages are encouraged where lot
widths and depths permit. To encourage side entry garages, the front setback is
ten feet (10') from the front property line. Where garage doors directly face
the street, efforts shall be made to minimize their visual impact with
architectural or site treatments.
            (2)   Houses And Accessory Structures: Shall be sited to minimize
grading and shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is
limited to building envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is
more constraining.
            (3)   Building Massing: Shall step with the natural grade to
minimize exposed building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two
(2) stories plus roof. The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear
of the lot.
            (4)   Clustering: Wherever site and access conditions permit
clustering of buildings, garages and drives are encouraged to minimize site
disruption and maximize open space. Clustering techniques may include shared
driveways, key or flag lots, eyebrow cul-de-sacs, etc.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2094.gif]
Typical regular lot
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2098.gif]
Clustering examples.
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 724, 3-11-2009)
      5.   Village Homes:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2100.gif]
      Plan view illustrative of village lots.
         a.   Description: Village home lots are smaller rural lots that are
reminiscent of the "in town" lots traditionally found in Idaho's agricultural
towns and villages. They are intended to provide a close knit residential
village with strong pedestrian and community orientation that is found in some
of the great older neighborhoods of Boise (such as the North End).
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Family daycare home.
            Parks.
            Schools.
            Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory
structures, including condominiums.
            Temporary sales offices and model homes.
            Townhomes (as defined in subsection B6 of this section).
         c.   Accessory Uses:
            Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
            Freestanding garages or storage structures.
            Home occupations.
            Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2).
            Swimming pools.
            Tennis courts.
         d.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Agricultural operations.
            Bed and breakfast establishments.
            Health club facilities.
            Public structures.
            Public utility structures.
            Roadside stand.
         e.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         f.   Lot Characteristics:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               Minimum lot size: 3,200 square feet.
               Minimum lot depth: 80 feet.
               Minimum lot width: 40 feet (60 feet typical).
               Minimum lot frontage: 30 feet.
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front yard setback: 10 feet.
               Side yard setback: 3 feet minimum from lot line. For corner
lots, minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be 13 feet.
               Rear yard setback: 10 feet (0 feet for garage, accessory or
storage structure).
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum building height: 40 feet.
               Maximum building coverage: 70 percent of lot. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
         g.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Garages: Rear entry garages off alleys or front entry garage
structures located behind the main residential building are encouraged.
            (2)   Front Porches: Village homes are encouraged to provide usable
front porches along the majority of their street side facades. These porches
should receive special architectural treatment and be of sufficient depth and
width to encourage use as an outdoor living space.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2102.gif]
Typical village lot layout.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2096.gif]
Develop 10' build-to-street edge.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2105.gif]
Garages shall be accessed from rear of lot.
      6.   Town Homes:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2107.gif]
Plan view illustrative of town homes.
         a.   Description: Town home lots are the densest residential product
envisioned at Hidden Springs. The town home lots are generally intended to
provide an alternative, attached-style unit which may appeal to seniors, empty-
nesters, first-time buyers, and single parents who prefer an attached product
with limited yard area. Town home lots are intended to be located in or within
convenient walking distance of the town center.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory
structures, including condominiums.
            Duplex and multi-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their
accessory structures, including condominiums.
            Temporary sales offices and model homes or units.
            Family day care home.
            Parks.
            Schools.
            Village homes (as defined in subsection
8-21A-5B5 of this Section).
         c.   Accessory Uses:
            Home occupations.
            Freestanding garages or storage structures.
            Temporary living quarters.
            Fitness and health facilities (for use by town home residents).
            Parking area or lot.
         d.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Public utility structures.
            Public structures.
            Bed and breakfast establishments.
            Individual swimming pools and tennis courts.
            Clubs, lodges and social halls.
            Agricultural operations.
         e.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified above.
         f.   Lot Characteristics:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               (A)   Single-Family:
                  Minimum Lot Size: 1,200 square feet.
                  Minimum Lot Depth: 60 feet.
                  Minimum Lot Width: 20 feet.
                  Minimum Lot Frontage: 20 feet.
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front Yard Setback: 10 feet.
               Side Yard Setback: 0 feet minimum from lot line with 10 feet
minimum separation from adjoining buildings. For corner lots, minimum side yard
setback from corner lot line shall be 13 feet.
               Rear Yard Setback: 10 feet (0 feet for garage, accessory or
storage structure with alley).
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum Building Height: 40 feet.
               Maximum Coverage: 85 percent.
               Maximum Units Per Building: 12.
               Parking: 2 spaces per unit (includes garage spaces).
         g.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Multi-Family Or Attached Home Density: Shall be 16 DU/acre
maximum.
            (2)   Buildings: Shall respect existing drainage patterns. Building
massing must step with the natural grade.
            (3)   Surface Parking Areas: Shall be landscaped and terraced with
the natural grade.
            (4)   Landscaped Outdoor Common Areas: Shall be incorporated into
the site plan.
            (5)   Ground Floor Units: Are encouraged to have patios to provide
a private outdoor space. Upper floor units are encouraged to have porches or
balconies.
            (6)   Garages: Are encouraged to be incorporated into the building
massing.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2109.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2111.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2113.png]
 
   C.   Nonresidential Uses: The following is a detailed description of all
nonresidential uses including principal permitted uses, administrative permit
uses, accessory uses, prohibited uses, characteristics, standards and special
conditions. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
      1.   Village Commercial:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2115.png]
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998)
         a.   Description: The Village Commercial Overlay is generally intended
to provide for neighborhood businesses that are compatible with the adjoining
village home residential uses, and service the residents of Hidden Springs, Dry
Creek Valley, and other nearby areas. The total cumulative commercial
development in the Village Commercial Overlay shall not exceed fifty thousand
(50,000) GSF of interior building area, (excluding public and community support
uses), and only shall occur in the Hidden Springs Village Commercial Overlay
(HS-VC) District. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Bank branch offices (including automated tellers) excluding drive-
thru service.
            Clinics (medical or dental).
            Dry cleaning and laundering facility (provided actual dry cleaning
is done off-site).
            Offices (business, professional, real estate, etc.).
            Personal service retail.
            Restaurants, cafes, confectioneries or soda fountains (excluding
drive-in establishments).
            Retail stores, (including general stores, hardware stores,
bookstores, etc.).
            Guest houses and bed and breakfast establishments.
            Fire protection, law enforcement and emergency medical facilities.
            Group day care facility.
            Public or private parking area or lot.
            Park and ride facility.
            Health club facility.
            Parks.
            Storage facilities or storage structures. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997;
amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998)
         c.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Any commercial or retail use compatible with principal permitted
uses.
            Clubs, lodges or social halls.
            Places of public worship.
            Service stations.
            Taverns.
            Public utility structures.
            Public structures.
            Roadside stand.
         d.   Prohibited Uses: All nonresidential uses not specifically
identified.
         e.   Minimum Standards:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               Minimum Lot Size: 3,200 square feet.
               Minimum Lot Depth: 80 feet.
               Minimum Lot Width: 40 feet.
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front Yard Setback: 0 feet.
               Side Yard Setback: 0 to adjoining commercial, 10 feet to
adjoining residential, 10 feet for corner lots.
               Rear Yard Setback: 10 feet (0 feet for freestanding garage or
storage structure with alley).
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum Building Height: 40 feet (not including vertical
elements of less than 100 square feet for community use facilities).
               Maximum Building Coverage: 85% of lot.
               Buildings may be developed as commercial condominiums.
         f.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Parking: For village commercial uses shall be provided on-
street or in rear yards adjacent to or behind the commercial buildings. Parking
for the first one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building area is
assumed to be accommodated on-street within the village center, and off-street
parking beyond the first one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building
area shall be provided at a minimum of one space per one thousand (1,000)
square feet of interior building area. No front yard parking will be permitted.
            (2)   Loading Facilities: For commercial uses shall be thoroughly
screened and buffered from adjoining residential uses.
            (3)   Village Commercial Buildings: Shall receive special
architectural treatments to make them residential in scale, mass and design and
thus compatible with adjoining residential uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2121.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2117.png]
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
      2.   Agricultural Commercial:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2124.png]
 
         a.   Description: The Agricultural Commercial Overlay is generally
intended to provide for agriculturally oriented and other businesses that are
compatible with adjoining residential and agricultural land uses, and service
the residents of Hidden Springs, Dry Creek Valley, as well as those of nearby
areas. The total cumulative commercial development in the Agricultural
Commercial Overlay shall not exceed fifty thousand (50,000) GSF of interior
building area, (excluding public and community support uses) and shall only
occur in the Hidden Springs Agricultural Commercial (HS-AC) District.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Agricultural operations, including agricultural outbuildings.
            Roadside stands offering for sale agricultural products.
            Farm machinery sales (excluding repair).
            Feed, seed, and fertilizer stores.
            Other agriculturally related retail stores (including farm apparel,
etc.).
            Retail store.
            Animal clinics and veterinary offices.
            Offices.
            Guest houses and bed and breakfast establishments.
            Group day care facility.
            Community centers.
            Schools.
            Parks.
            Health club facilities.
            Park and ride facility.
            Public or private parking area.
            Temporary sales offices.
            Temporary construction facilities.
         c.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Any commercial or retail use compatible with the principal
permitted uses.
            Commercial greenhouses, nurseries.
            Grain storage structures.
            Places of public worship.
            Clubs, lodges or social halls.
            Public utility structures.
            Public structures.
            Fire protection, law enforcement and emergency medical facilities.
            Storage facilities or storage structures. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997;
amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998)
         d.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified.
         e.   Minimum Standards:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               Minimum Lot Size: 1/2 acre.
               Minimum Lot Depth: 120 feet.
               Minimum Lot Width: 100 feet.
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front Yard Setback: 20 feet.
               Side Yard Setback: 20 feet minimum from lot line. For corner
lots, minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be 30 feet.
               Rear Yard Setback: 20 feet.
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum Building Height: 45 feet.
               Maximum Building Coverage: 30% of lot.
         f.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Building Envelopes: Shall be designated on all rural and farm
lots underlying the Agricultural Commercial Overlay. Commercial buildings must
be located within this envelope. Additional site disturbance shall be contained
within this envelope except for a maximum of five thousand (5,000) square feet
of additional disturbance which is permitted contiguous to, but outside the
building envelope to accommodate parking for commercial uses.
            (2)   Parking: For agricultural commercial uses shall be provided
either to the side or rear of commercial buildings. Parking for the first one
thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building area is assumed to be
accommodated on-street within the village center, and off-street parking beyond
the first one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building area shall be
provided at a minimum of one space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
interior building area. No front yard parking will be permitted.
            (3)   Loading Facilities: For commercial uses shall be thoroughly
screened and buffered from adjoining residential uses.
            (4)   Architectural Treatments: Agricultural commercial uses near
the town center shall receive architectural treatments that make them
residential in scale, mass, and design, and compatible with adjoining
residential uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2126.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2128.png]
 
      3.   Community Center/School:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2130.png]
         a.   Description: The community center is generally intended to
include the recreational and community service uses that will form the social
hub of the community and shall only occur in the Hidden Springs Village Zone
(HS-V).
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Public and private schools and accessory structures.
            Community center/meeting hall and accessory structures.
            Recreation facility and accessory structures.
            Indoor and outdoor swimming pools and spas, and accessory
structures.
            Tennis courts.
            Playfields and playgrounds/tot lots.
            Golf practice/putting facilities.
            Clubs, lodges or social halls.
            Group day care facility.
            Health club facilities.
            Park and ride facilities.
            Public and private parking area.
         c.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Places of public worship.
            Restaurants and cafes.
            Public utility structures.
            Public structures.
            Agricultural operations.
         d.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified above.
         e.   Minimum Standards:
            (1)   Dimensions:
               Minimum Lot Size: 1.5 acres.
               Minimum Lot Depth: 150 feet.
               Minimum Lot Width: 150 feet.
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front Yard Setback: 20 feet.
               Side Yard Setback: 20 feet minimum. For corner lots, minimum
side yard setback from corner lot line shall be 30 feet.
               Rear Yard Setback: 20 feet.
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum Building Height: 45 feet.
               Maximum Building Coverage: 50% of lot.
         f.   Special Conditions:
            (1)   Parking: Parking for the first one thousand (1,000) square
feet of indoor use area is assumed to be accommodated on-street within the
village center, and off-street parking beyond the first one thousand (1,000)
square feet of interior building area shall be provided at a minimum of one
space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building area.
            (2)   Loading Facilities: For the community center shall be
thoroughly screened and buffered from adjoining residential uses.
            (3)   Building Massing: Is encouraged to be broken into a complex
of smaller structures that are compatible in relative scale and size with
adjoining residential uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2132.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2135.png]
 
      4.   Equestrian Center:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2137.png]
 
         a.   Description: The equestrian center is generally intended to
include equestrian uses and facilities to serve residents of the project who
own and wish to board horses. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Animal clinic or veterinary office.
            Commercial stable and riding arena.
            Equestrian-related retail store.
            Office(s) and residence for operator/caretaker of equestrian
facilities.
            Paddocks, pastures, and corrals.
            Public and private parking area.
            Restaurant, cafe. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 582, 5-25-2005)
         c.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Agricultural operations.
            Clubs, lodges, or social halls.
            Public structures.
            Public utility structures.
            Storage structures.
            Tavern.
         d.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified above.
         e.   Minimum Standards:
            Minimum Lot Size: 2 acres.
            Minimum Lot Depth: None.
            Minimum Lot Width: None.
            Building setback: 30 feet from property or parcel boundary. 10 feet
between paddock or corral fencing and property or parcel boundary.
            Maximum Building Height: 45 feet with a special tower element of
less than 100 square feet permitted to maximum of 50 feet.
            Maximum Building Coverage: 10% of lot.
            Parking Requirements: One off-street space for every four horses
boarded on site; one space per on-duty employee/caretaker.
         f.   Special Conditions:
            Building shall be sited with respect to existing drainage patterns.
            Building massing and pastures shall step with the natural grade.
            Service, loading and maintenance facilities shall be completely
screened from roads and residents.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2139.png]
 
      5.   Open Space And Parks:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2141.png]
         a.   Description: Areas within the project designated as open space
areas or parks are intended to provide both active and passive recreational
opportunities as well as educational facilities, agricultural and wildlife
areas. Open space areas include neighborhood and community parks, the Hidden
Springs Greenway, the project-wide trail system, designated wildlife areas, and
the agricultural conservation area in the valley floor.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            A recreational facility (in a community park only) including a
maximum of 2,500 square feet pavilion-type space.
            Park structures, gazebos, restrooms, and concession facilities.
            Playfields and playgrounds, tot lots, tennis courts, swimming
pools, etc.
            Trails (pedestrian, bike and equestrian).
            Agricultural outbuildings.
            Agricultural operations (farming, grazing and/or gardens).
            Schools, public or private.
            Park and ride facility.
            Public parking area (associated with open space or park use). (Ord.
325, 3-12-1997)
         c.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Public utility structures. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-
13-1998)
         d.   Prohibited Uses:
            All uses not specifically identified. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         e.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit (which may only occur in
the Agricultural Conservation Area):
            Nurseries. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998)
         f.   Minimum Standards:
            Setback For Buildings/Fields/Play Equipment From All Lot Lines: 10
feet.
            Maximum Building Height: 35 feet with special vertical element or
landmark of less than 100 square feet (footprint) permitted to exceed 60 feet.
            Parking: None shall be required for park or open space areas;
parking for other principal permitted uses or administrative permit uses shall
be in accordance with this Title. Parking areas may serve multiple or joint
uses while satisfying the parking requirements for only one of the multiple or
joint uses in question.
         g.   Special Conditions:
            Trails and play fields shall be sited with respect to existing
drainage patterns.
            Service and maintenance facilities shall be completely screened
from adjacent uses.
            Site lighting shall be low intensity and utilize cut- off
luminaires to minimize glare and impacts to surrounding residential areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2143.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2145.png]
 
      6.   Employment Centers:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2147.png]
         a.   Description: The employment center overlay is intended to
accommodate commercial, office and institutional uses which may be incorporated
into one or more of four (4) relatively "hidden" side valleys or coves within
the project site for the purpose of providing employment for residents of
Hidden Springs and nearby areas and shall only occur in the Hidden springs
employment center overlay (HS-EC) district. All principal permitted uses set
forth below shall be subject to the employment center approval process in
subsection 8-21A-7G of this article.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Any use or building incidental to the employment center use that
does not alter the overall character of the project.
            Convalescent home.
            Health club facility.
            High technology corporate headquarters and research facilities.
            Parking structures and covered parking.
            Parks.
            Private and public parking area.
            Public structures.
            Public utility structures.
            Spas and health retreats.
            University related research centers and cultural facilities.
            Other similar uses which are relatively self-contained and low in
development intensity yet provide employment opportunities.
         c.   Prohibited Uses:
            Any use which does not meet the compatibility criteria described in
subsection 8-21A-7G of this article. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
         d.   Minimum Standards:
            (1)   Density:
               Maximum density: 0.30 FAR.
               Maximum building coverage: 30 percent of lot.
               Minimum open space: 30 percent of lot.
            (2)   Setbacks:
               Front yard setback: 50 feet (10 feet for parking).
               Side yard setback: 20 feet.
               Rear yard setback: 0 feet.
            (3)   Buildings:
               Maximum building height: 45 feet.
               Maximum interior building area building: 50,000 square feet.
            (4)   Parking:
               Minimum of 1 space per 1,000 square feet of interior building
area. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 490, 4-9-2003)
         e.   Special Conditions:
            Building envelopes shall be designated for all employment center
uses and all buildings. Parking and site disturbance shall be contained within
this envelope.
            Building should be sited with respect for existing site drainage
patterns.
            Building massing shall step with natural grade.
            Surface parking areas should be terraced with natural grade and
landscape screened from view of adjacent residents.
            Service and loading facilities shall be screened from view of
adjacent residents. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
      7.   Unplatted Property:
         a.   Description: The unplatted property within Hidden Springs is that
property which has not been platted. This area is intended to be used for its
historic agricultural and other uses, as well as certain other uses which are
in furtherance of the agricultural operations and goals and objectives of the
Hidden Springs specific plan. It is the ultimate intent that all property
within Hidden Springs be platted. Notwithstanding chapter 2, article E of this
title, any improvements associated with the uses specified below may be
developed and constructed on any unplatted property within Hidden Springs. All
uses of the unplatted property shall be consistent with this article and the
specific plan.
         b.   Principal Permitted Uses:
            Agricultural operations (farming, grazing and/or gardens).
            Agricultural outbuildings and crop storage facilities.
            Community events (public or private).
            Essential public services.
            Public utility structures.
            Temporary construction facilities.
            Temporary sales offices.
            Trails (pedestrian, bike, and equestrian).
         c.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit:
            Playfields and playgrounds.
            Schools.
         d.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Permit (Which May Only Occur In
The Agricultural Conservation Area):
            Nurseries.
         e.   Prohibited Uses: All uses not specifically identified. (Ord. 325,
3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998)
   D.   Land Use Summary Table: Figure_8-21A-5D (land use summary table) of
this section is a summary of all residential and nonresidential uses and
characteristics within the Hidden Springs planned community, including,
principal permitted uses, accessory uses, administrative permit uses,
prohibited uses, and lot characteristics.
   Link to Figure_8-21A-5D_PDF_here
   E.   Specific Restrictions For The Phased Development Of Hidden Springs:
      1.   Total residential units shall not exceed one thousand thirty five
(1,035), excluding accessory use or employment center uses.
      2.   Total village commercial use shall not exceed fifty thousand
(50,000) gross square feet of interior building area, not including public and
community support uses;
      3.   Total agricultural commercial use shall not exceed fifty thousand
(50,000) gross square feet of interior building area not including public and
community support uses;
      4.   The open space area depicted on the Hidden Springs master land use
plan shall remain open and free of development other than wildlife habitat
improvements, trails, and other recreational improvements, agriculture, and
agricultural operations and outbuildings; provided however, that minor changes
in the boundaries of the open space areas are acceptable as long as the total
acreage of the open space areas does not decrease below eight hundred ten (810)
acres.
The director shall be responsible for monitoring compliance with the foregoing
specific restrictions. The director shall develop and maintain a mechanism to
ensure compliance with the specific restrictions set forth above. (Ord. 325, 3-
12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999)
8-21A-6: DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN GUIDELINES:
The specific development and design guidelines approved as a part of the Hidden
Springs specific plan are incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord. 325, 3-
12-1997)
8-21A-7: ADMINISTRATIVE/OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Intent: The review and approval process established hereunder for the
development of Hidden Springs planned community embodies the intent of the
Hidden Springs specific plan and the Ada County zoning ordinance.
It shall be the duty of the director to administer the provisions of this
article for the development of Hidden Springs. The director shall have the
authority to interpret the provisions of this article and make decisions on
land use issues not specifically addressed by the Hidden Springs specific plan
and/or this article.
No phase of Hidden Springs shall be approved unless essential public services
for such phase, as specified in the Hidden Springs specific plan and this
article, are provided to support the phase as it proceeds.
The director, commission, and/or board, as the case may be, shall base their
approvals or disapprovals upon compliance with the provisions of this article
and the goals and policies and purpose and intent of the Hidden Springs
specific plan.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: Any applicant seeking plat, accessory use,
administrative permit use or employment center use approval, or any other
application required pursuant to this article may request a preapplication
conference with the director to clarify the requirements, standards and
policies identified in this article. The preapplication conference should be
held as soon as is practicable after the request by the applicant. At this
conference, the applicant may present sketch plans describing the general
nature and intent of their proposed development. The purpose of the
preapplication meeting is to determine whether the applicant's proposed
development is consistent with the intent of this article. If deemed
consistent, the applicant may proceed directly with preparation and submittal
of an application. If the proposed development is deemed not clearly consistent
or if significant issues are raised, the director shall identify such issues in
writing within ten (10) days of the conference and shall encourage the
applicant to submit revised sketch plans and schedule another preapplication
conference prior to formal submittal of an application. The director shall
furnish written comments and recommendations to assist the applicant in
preparing the next submittal. The submission, review, and the director's
written comments and recommendations of any plat, accessory use, administrative
permit use or employment center use shall in no way be interpreted as official
approval or to mean that such review satisfies the requirements of the
submission of a preliminary plat or approval of any other application. The
director's written comments and recommendations shall be nonbinding on the
decision made by the director, commission and/or board.
   C.   Hidden Springs Subdivision Procedures:
      1.   Preliminary Plat And Final Plat Procedures: These regulations are
adopted for the purpose of protecting property and furthering the health,
safety and general welfare of the people of Hidden Springs, and to provide
uniform standards for the subdivision of land. Subject to subsection
8-21A-4E of this article, these regulations shall apply to the subdivision of
all land within Hidden Springs. It shall be unlawful hereafter to make a
subdivision of land, as defined by this article, or any part thereof, until
plans therefor are submitted to the director and recommended by the commission
and approved by the board.
         a.   Procedure For Preliminary Plat Approval By The Commission:
Applications for a preliminary plat shall comply with the Hidden Springs
specific plan and this article. The procedure for approval of preliminary plats
shall be as follows:
            (1)   An applicant shall file an application for approval of a
preliminary plat showing proposed improvements and other supplementary material
as required in subsection C2 of this section. All persons submitting
applications for a preliminary plat shall be required to submit to the director
an application upon the form(s) provided by the development services department
and accompanied by an application fee as established in subsection
8-7A-2E of this title. No application shall be considered as accepted by the
director, nor shall the time limits hereinafter set out for action commence to
run, unless it is complete with all the required information.
            (2)   Twenty (20) copies of the preliminary plat application and
all supplementary material shall be filed with the director. All materials
shall be collated.
               (A)   Upon receipt of the required application materials, the
director shall transmit a copy of the application to applicable agencies or
jurisdictions for review and comments.
                  (i)   Agencies to which the director shall transmit
applications include:
                     Central district health department
                     Ada County engineer
                     Ada County highway district
                     Appropriate city, if within an area of city impact as set
forth in title 9 of this code.
                  (ii)   The director may refer such applications to agencies
that have a jurisdictional interest. The director shall maintain a list of
agencies for this purpose.
               (B)   Written recommendations and comments will be accepted up
to the time of the public hearing from various departments or agencies.
            (3)   Within the time given below the commission shall act on the
application:
               (A)   The commission shall schedule and conduct a public hearing
within forty (40) days after acceptance of the preliminary plat application.
               (B)   The commission shall make a written recommendation to the
board based upon findings of fact and conclusions of law.
            (4)   The action of the commission shall be noted on two (2) copies
of the preliminary plat.
            (5)   Recommendation of approval of a preliminary plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat; rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval of the layout and other information shown on the plat submitted.
         b.   Procedure For Preliminary Plat Approval By The Board: Following
the recommendation of the preliminary plat by the commission, the preliminary
plat shall be submitted to the board for approval. The applicant shall have the
right to seek simultaneous approval of the preliminary and final plats. The
provisions of subsection C1d of this section shall govern the procedure for
this simultaneous approval. The applicant shall notify the director of the
intent for simultaneous submittal and submit the preliminary and final plats to
comply with the time frame set forth in subsection C1b(2) of this section. The
procedure for approval by the board of the preliminary plat shall be as
follows:
            (1)   The preliminary plat submitted to the board shall conform to
the preliminary plat as recommended by the commission.
            (2)   Within the time given below the board shall act on the
application:
               (A)   The board shall schedule and conduct a public hearing
within thirty (30) days after receipt of the commission's recommendation on the
preliminary plat application.
               (B)   The board shall state its approval or denial in writing,
based on findings of fact and conclusions of law.
            (3)   The action of the board shall be noted on two (2) copies of
the preliminary plat. One copy shall be returned to the applicant and one copy
retained by the director.
            (4)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval
of the final plat; rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the
layout and other information shown on the preliminary plat as a guide to the
preparation of the final plat.
            (5)   The term of approval of the preliminary plat by the board
shall not exceed twenty four (24) months. Failure to submit an acceptable final
plat within the twenty four (24) month period will result in the approval of
the preliminary plat becoming null and void. Provided, however, that the
applicant may request, and the board may authorize, a time extension pursuant
to the provisions of, and limitations set forth in, section
8-7-6 of this title.
         c.   Procedure For Final Plat Approval By The Board: Following the
approval of the preliminary plat by the board, the final plat shall be
submitted to the director for the board's approval and signature. The procedure
for approval of the final plat shall be as follows:
            (1)   The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as
approved, and if desired by the applicant, it may constitute the entire
preliminary plat or any portion (phase) thereof; provided, however, that such
portion (phase) conforms to all requirements of the approval.
            (2)   The final plat and other documents required for approval
shall be prepared as specified herein. The final plat shall be submitted to the
director within the time allowed in subsection C1b(5) of this section from the
board's approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, such approval shall
expire. The board may authorize time extensions in accordance with section
8-7-6 of this title. Provided, however, that where developments are made in
successive contiguous portions (phases) in any orderly and reasonable manner,
without material changes or departures from the preliminary plat, such portions
(phases), if submitted within successive two (2) year intervals, may be
considered for final plat approval.
            (3)   The final plat, properly executed and approved as required by
law shall be presented to the board by the director. The board shall review
said plat and any recommendations made by the director. When approved by the
board, said plat shall be signed by the chairman of the board and a notation
made in the minutes of the meeting. Any exceptions or conditions relating to
said approval shall be noted in the minutes.
            (4)   The board shall act on the application:
               (A)   Within thirty (30) days after receipt of an acceptable
final plat.
               (B)   If approved, the board shall adopt findings of fact and
conclusions of law, and shall state its approval and the conditions of
approval, if any, or if disapproved, state its disapproval and the reasons
therefor in writing based on findings of fact and conclusions of law.
            (5)   Final plat and covenants shall be filed with and recorded by
the Ada County recorder within one year after written approval by the board.
Provided, however, that the applicant may request, and the board may authorize,
a time extension pursuant to the provisions of, and limitations set forth in,
section
8-7-6 of this title. No plat or dedication, or any instrument passing title to
any portion thereof, shall be offered for recording unless approved in
accordance with this article.
         d.   Procedure For Simultaneous Approval Of The Preliminary Plat And
Final Plat By The Board: Following the recommendation of the preliminary plat
by the commission, the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the board for
approval, and a final plat shall be submitted to the board for approval and
signature. The procedure of simultaneous approval by the board of the
preliminary plat and the final plat shall be as follows:
            (1)   The preliminary plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as
recommended by the commission, and if desired by the applicant, it may
constitute the entire preliminary plat or any portion (phase); provided,
however, that such portion (phase) thereof conforms to all requirements of the
approval.
            (2)   The final plat and other documents required for approval
shall be prepared as specified herein. The final plat shall be submitted to the
director.
            (3)   The preliminary plat and the final plat, properly executed as
required by law, shall be presented to the board by the director. The board
shall review said plats and any recommendations made by the director. The board
shall act within thirty (30) days after review of the plats. When approved by
the board, the final plat shall be signed by the chairman of the board and a
notation made in the minutes of the meeting. Any exceptions or conditions
relating to said approval shall be noted in the minutes. If approved, the board
shall state its approval and the conditions of approval, if any, or if denied,
state its denial and the reasons therefor in writing, based on findings of fact
and conclusions of law.
      2.   Specifications For Preliminary And Final Plats:
         a.   Preliminary Plat Application: The application shall contain all
the information specified in this section.
            (1)   The applicant shall submit evidence of proprietary interest
in the land to be subdivided. Evidence acceptable to the director shall be a
deed record, or, when the occasion demands, a land contract, or a current
option to purchase, or written authority in recordable form authorizing the
applicant to act as agent for the true owners of said property. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the director may require additional evidence of proprietary
interest from the applicant or his agent.
            (2)   Information required on application forms as provided by the
director.
            (3)   Such proposed restrictive covenants as are required to ensure
continuing conformance with the standards set forth in this article, including,
but not limited to, building setback lines, wildfire prevention requirements,
and energy conservation standards, measures and suggestions.
         b.   Preliminary Plat Specifications:
            (1)   Drawing Specifications: All mapped information shall be
prepared in a neat and legible manner and drawn to a scale of not less than one
hundred feet (100') to the inch. A smaller scale or different size may be used
for large developments with prior written approval from the director. Limits of
the drawing shall include an area not less than one hundred feet (100') beyond
boundaries of the proposed development. All maps shall show:
               (A)   The subdivision boundary which shall be based on an actual
field survey. The stamp of the licensed professional land surveyor shall
certify the boundary survey on the plan.
               (B)   The name of the owner, person and firm responsible for the
drawing.
               (C)   The name of the proposed subdivision.
               (D)   The date, graphic scale, true north arrow, vicinity map
and section, township and range.
               (E)   Ties to all controlling corners.
               (F)   The names of adjoining subdivisions.
               (G)   The proposed public street and private road names, street
right of way lines, and street centerlines, and the location of proposed shared
driveways.
               (H)   The lot layout with lot and block numbers and approximate
dimensions of each lot.
               (I)   Areas of special use, i.e., parks, schools, open space,
etc., and in residential plats all parcels intended for other than residential
use shall be indicated by appropriate labeling.
               (J)   Location, width, direction of slope, and names of existing
public streets and private roads.
               (K)   Important features, such as the following: outline of
existing buildings, watercourses, power lines, telephone lines, railroad lines,
any existing easement, municipal boundaries and section lines.
               (L)   The minimum setbacks from the front, the side and the rear
lot lines.
               (M)   Contour lines based on USGS datum with intervals of not
more than five feet (5') for parcels with a general slope of greater than five
percent (5%) or intervals of not more than two feet (2') for parcels with a
general slope of less than or equal to five percent (5%), which contour lines
shall extend a minimum of one hundred feet (100') beyond the proposed
development boundary, and if the proposed development is bordered by a drainage
channel, extending the additional distance necessary to show the far side of
the drainage facility.
               (N)   The proposed off site improvements pertaining to streets,
water supply system, wastewater collection and treatment system, fire
protection facilities and other essential public services.
               (O)   Location and identification of all potentially dangerous
areas, including geologically hazardous areas, areas subject to inundations or
flood hazard, and areas of high groundwater.
         c.   Preliminary Plat Supplemental Data:
            (1)   Percolation tests, approximate location of any areas of fill,
and water table data as required by the county engineer. The elevations of all
corner points on the boundaries of the proposed plat, subdivision or
dedication. Contours when required by the county engineer with intervals of
five feet (5') or less referenced to such datum acceptable to the county
engineer.
            (2)   When drainage course and irrigation facilities are involved a
topographical plan showing existing course, distance, dimensions, and proposed
improvements including sewers, storm drains, catch basins, pumps, and seepage
beds shall be provided. Documentary evidence of consent to reroutings by all
interested landowners affected and having rights to and in such facilities
shall also be provided.
            (3)   A reference table of lot numbers and lot types, as defined in
subsection 8-21A-5A2 of this article must be provided.
            (4)   Any other supplementary data deemed necessary by the director
based on the location; type of proposed development; or request or
recommendation of another agency.
         d.   Final Plats: The final plat shall be prepared as provided by, and
include the items required by, Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13, related state
law and the following additional requirements.
            (1)   The final plat, drawing page(s) and signature page shall be
drawn on eighteen inch by twenty seven inch (18"x27") sheets. No information,
except for a borderline, shall be any closer to the edge of any sheet than
three and one-half inches (31/2") at the left edge and a half inch (1/2") on
all other edges. The letters, numbers, and notes shall be of such size and
scale to clearly show on the microfilm copies, reproducible copies, and prints
of the recorded documents.
            (2)   The drawings page(s) shall show exterior boundary and lot
lines, right of way lines, streets, street islands, existing and new easements,
all accurately dimensioned with bearings to the nearest one second and
distances to the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of a foot. The dimensions shall
provide a minimum lot and boundary survey closure of one to ten thousand (1:
10,000). The drawing page(s) and owner's certificate shall show or contain all
related curve data including radius, length, central angle, long chord and long
chord bearing.
            (3)   Permanent monuments, magnetically detectable, marked with the
license number of the surveyor, shall be set for:
               (A)   All lot corners and the exterior boundary corners.
               (B)   Centerline angle points, point of curvatures (PCs), point
of tangencies (PTs), intersecting street centerlines, and places where
centerline changes directions.
               (C)   Street islands; radius points for cul-de-sacs; and
property controlling corners that control the location of the boundary.
In places which are impossible or impractical to set the monument, a witness
corner or reference monument shall be set and dimensioned accordingly. Such
monument shall be of the same size and marking required for the monument it is
replacing. A witness corner monument shall be set on the lot line or property
line. A reference monument shall be set with a bearing and distance tie to the
actual corner.
All monuments found, existing or accepted and used in the survey shall be
marked with the license number of the survey.
            (4)   The plat shall show:
               (A)   Two (2) primary control points, approved by the county
surveyor and "ties" to such control points. Primary control points must be
public land survey corners or officially recognized corners with corner
perpetuation and filing number shown.
               (B)   The approved street names. All street names shall be
approved by the Ada County street name committee.
               (C)   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements.
               (D)   Location, description and size of monuments that are set
or found.
               (E)   Title, including subdivision name and general location
description, and date.
               (F)   Owner's certificate shall contain a statement of
dedication of easements and private roads. Private roads may be shown as a lot
or an easement.
               (G)   The right of way width from centerline of each street or
other right of way.
               (H)   Name and location of adjoining subdivisions. Other areas
show as "unplatted".
               (I)   Building envelopes.
      3.   Required Improvements And Certificates Showing Compliance:
         a.   Monument And Plat Requirements: The requirements of the Idaho
Code regarding plats and monuments shall be met and any work required to be
performed on the property to meet such requirements shall be verified by the
county surveyor prior to certification of the plat by him. The provisions of
such sections as to monuments, stakes and other markings shall be considered
minimum requirements, and the county surveyor may establish higher reasonable
requirements for Hidden Springs planned community by filing a written
specification under this section with the board; said written specifications
shall become effective under this section only when approved by the board. Any
such specifications shall be consistent with those applicable for plats in
other portions of Ada County.
         b.   Streets And Other Improvements: Streets and other improvements,
as hereinafter listed and as applicable, including, but not limited to, a
domestic water supply system and wastewater collection and treatment system,
public thoroughfare and easement signage and landscaping, trails, sidewalks,
off street public and private parking areas and traffic control facilities
shall be installed in each new development at the applicant's expense, unless a
political subdivision is created or exists, in which case said improvements
would be made and maintained by the political subdivision, all in accordance
with the minimum standards set forth in this article, prior to the acceptance
of any final plat for filing. In addition, prior to the acceptance of any final
plat for filing, the applicant must prove adequate mechanisms exist for
operations and maintenance of such public improvements. Public street
improvements shall be in accordance with figures 8-21A-7C3b of this section,
the specific plan and this article; provided that alternative public street
improvements may be designed and constructed if approved by the Ada County
highway district in accordance with its rules, regulations, policies and
procedures. Private street and road improvements shall be considered, reviewed
and approved in conjunction with the approval of plats pursuant to this
article. Private street and road improvements shall comply with, and be
approved pursuant to, the following criteria:
            (1)   Private streets are to be named in accordance with the
provisions of the Ada County uniform street name ordinance.
            (2)   Private streets shall originate at a public right of way and
terminate at a forty five foot (45') cul-de-sac or other approved turnaround
area.
            (3)   Shared driveways shall originate at a public right of way or
private road easement. The design and construction standards shall be approved
by the engineer of record and the applicable fire district.
            (4)   Private street and shared driveway access shall be guaranteed
by a recorded perpetual use easement to be noted on the final plat.
            (5)   Construction Standards:
 
                     Private Streets                           Shared Driveways
                     1 to 4 lots          >4 lots
Minimum right of way 30'                  30'                  n/a
width
Minimum improved     20'                  24'                  20'
width
6" of 3/4" crushed   X                    X                    X
gravel, compacted
2% slope from        X                    X                    X
centerline
                     Pavement of asphalt
                     or concrete. If
                     concrete, pavement   Pavement of asphalt
                     shall consist of a   or concrete. If
                     4" slab on 4" of 3/  concrete, pavement
                     4" gravel base       shall consist of a
                     course. If asphalt,  4" slab on 4" of 3/
Improved surface     pavement shall       4" gravel base
(minimum)            consist of a minimum course. If asphalt,  n/a
                     of 2" machine laid   pavement shall
                     asphalt with 6" of   consist of a minimum
                     3/4" gravel base     of 21/2" machine
                     course or 11/2"      laid asphalt with 6"
                     thick bituminous     of 3/4" gravel base
                     surface treatment on course.
                     6" of 3/4" gravel
                     base course.
 
   FIGURE 8-21A-7C3B STREET IMPROVEMENTS
Road     Total    Travel Shoulder Turn   Parking  Sidewalk/ Setback
Type ROW Pavement Lanes  Width    Lane/  (Left)   Bike Path To Path Curb Type
         Width           (ea)     Median                    (1)
                Total    Travel Shoulder Turn   Parking Sidewalk/ Setback Curb
Road Type   ROW Pavement Lanes  Width    Lane/  (Left)  Bike Path To Path Type
                Width           (ea)     Median                   (1)
Rural
collector - 60' 24'      2@12'  3'       None   None    10'       n/a     None
typical
Rural
collector - 60' 36'      2@12'  3'       12'    None    10'       n/a     None
with turn
lane
Rural
collector - 46' 24'      2@12'  3'       None   None    8'        n/a     None
constrained
Dry Creek                                               10'               6"
Bridge      60' 26'      2@13'  0'       None   None             n/a     vertical
crossing
Rural
residential 50' 22'      2@11'  3'       None   None    8'        n/a     None
- typical
Rural
residential 40' 22'      2@11'  0'       None   None    8'        n/a     12"
-                                                                         ribbon
constrained
Village                                                                   6"
street -    72' 50'      2@12'  0'       10'    8'      5'        6'      vertical
primary
Village                                                                   6"
street -    56' 34'      2@10'  0'       None   7'      5'        6'      vertical
residential
Village     20' 16'      n/a    2'       None   None    None      n/a     None
alley
 
Note:
   (1)   Distance measured from face of curb.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2160.png]
 
Notes:
   (1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
   (2)   The ROW shall be 80 feet for Cartwright Road southeast of its
intersection with Dry Creek Road and for Dry Creek Road from its eastern
terminus westward to and including the Dry Creek Bridge.
 
                                      Rural collectors serve to collect traffic
                                      from and distribute traffic to village
                                      streets and rural residential roadways
                                      throughout the project. They will also
                                      serve to accommodate through traffic -
                                      although through traffic will be
                                      discouraged to help maintain the rural
                                      character and minimize environmental
Rural Collector - Typical (Seaman's   impact to the Dry Creek Valley. The
Gulch Road, Dry Creek Road, And Lower typical section includes a sixty foot
Cartwright Road):                     (60') right of way with two (2) 12-foot
                                      travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot stabilized
                                      shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum
                                      width grass swales. A single ten foot
                                      (10') pedestrian/bicycle path will
                                      meander in a pedestrian easement
                                      generally parallel to the right of way
                                      but not always contiguous to the right of
                                      way.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2162.png]
 
Note:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
 
                                  For rural collectors where turn lanes are
                                  needed, a twelve foot (12') center turn lane
                                  will be added as necessary to accommodate
Rural Collector - With Turn Lane: turning movement into project roadways. The
                                  section will also include travel lanes of
                                  twelve feet (12'). Otherwise the section will
                                  remain the same as the typical rural
                                  collector.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2164.png]
Note:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
 
                                     The rural collector constrained section
                                     mainly occurs in the upper portion of
                                     Cartwright Road. In order to maintain the
                                     visual character and minimize the site
                                     disturbance, this section has been
                                     narrowed. The typical section includes a
Rural Collector - Constrained (Upper forty six foot (46') right of way with two
Cartwright Road):                    (2) 12-foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot
                                     stabilized shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot
                                     maximum width grass swales. A single eight
                                     foot (8') shared pedestrian/bicycle path
                                     will be approximately parallel to the
                                     right of way in a separate pedestrian
                                     easement.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2166.png]
 
Note:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
 
                           The Dry Creek Bridge Crossing will provide enhanced
                           capacity, safety and the addition of a separate
                           bicycle/pedestrian facility across Dry Creek. The
                           bridge can also serve as a primary visual identity
                           element for the project, and may become a "covered
                           bridge" with appropriate vertical clearance and
Dry Creek Bridge Crossing: architectural style. The bridge crossing will remain
                           in its current location. Bridge width and associated
                           grading should be kept to a minimum to prevent
                           impact to the riparian corridor. The typical section
                           includes a thirty two foot (32') wide bridge surface
                           with two (2) 13-foot travel lanes. A single ten foot
                           (10') pedestrian/bicycle path will be accommodated
                           in a separate pedestrian/bicycle bridge crossing.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2168.png]
 
Note:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
 
                    Rural residential streets include most of the roadways in
                    Hidden Springs and will serve to carry local traffic to/
                    from individual homesites. These roadways will be located
                    and designed to discourage through traffic and maintain low
Rural Residential - vehicular speeds. The typical section includes a fifty foot
Typical:            (50') right of way with two (2) 11-foot travel lanes, two
                    (2) 3-foot stabilized shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum
                    width grass swales. A single eight foot (8') shared
                    pedestrian/bicycle path will meander beyond the ROW in a
                    pedestrian easement as necessary.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2170.png]
 
Note:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
 
                    Constrained rural residential streets occur in steeply
                    sloped areas that cannot handle the width required for the
                    typical rural residential section. This section includes a
                    forty foot (40') right of way with two (2) 11-foot travel
Rural Residential - lanes, no stabilized shoulders (but a 12 inch ribbon curb
Constrained:        included in the 11 foot travel lane) and one grass swale on
                    the uphill side of the street. An eight foot (8')
                    pedestrian/bicycle path will be located on the downhill
                    side of the street with a wood guardrail separating it from
                    the street for safety purposes.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2172.png]
 
 
 
                                   Primary village streets will serve as
                                   the "main streets" of the village center
                                   and will accommodate the potential for
                                   commercial uses, community center,
                                   school and village residential uses
                                   along their frontage. Village streets
                                   should establish a comfortable
Village Street - Primary (Seaman's environment for pedestrians with slower
Gulch Road, Dry Creek Road And     vehicular speeds, frequent vehicular
McFarland Road Within The Village  stops, on street parking and tree lined
Center):                           sidewalks. The typical section includes
                                   a seventy two foot (72') ROW with two
                                   (2) 12-foot travel lanes, one 10-foot
                                   turn lane (where necessary) or planted
                                   median, two (2) 8-foot parallel parking
                                   lanes, and five foot (5') sidewalks set
                                   back from the curb with a five foot six
                                   inch (5'6") tree lawn on both sides of
                                   the street and within the right of way.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2174.png]
 
 
                                       R es idential village streets should
                                       also establish a comfortable pedestrian
                                       environment with slow vehicular speeds,
                                       frequent vehicular stops, on street
                                       parking and tree lined sidewalks.
                                       Because turning volumes for these
Village Residential (All Other Streets streets should be low enough to
Within The Village Center):            eliminate the need for turn lanes, the
                                       typical section includes a fifty six
                                       foot (56') right of way with two (2) 10-
                                       foot travel lanes, two (2) 7-foot
                                       parallel parking lanes and five foot
                                       (5') sidewalks set back from the curb
                                       with a five foot six inch (5'6") tree
                                       lawn.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2176.png]
 
 
               Alleys will be created to eliminate driveways on village
               streets. Fewer driveways on village streets means more on street
               parking, more resident interaction, less utilitarian
Village Alley: infrastructure and no unsightly garages lining residential
               streets. Alleys will also be used for utility easements, trash
               collection, and emergency vehicular access. The typical alley
               section includes a sixteen foot (16') paved lane with two foot
               (2') shoulders on each side.
 
         c.   General Development Standards: The standards and specifications
for each general type of use shall be as set forth in the Hidden Springs
specific plan and this article.
         d.   Acceptance Of Improvements By County: Where an acceptable surety
arrangement is deposited as provided in subsection C3e of this section and the
work thereby guaranteed has been completed, notice in writing of such
completion, together with sets of prints of the "as built" plans and
specifications for all improvements, and requests for the return of the surety
arrangement shall be given in duplicate to the director, who shall give one
copy thereof to the county engineer for verification and certificate of
completion of work. Upon the director receiving said certificate as provided in
subsection C3g of this section, the director shall give notice to the county
clerk to release the sureties heretofore deposited with said county clerk in
the manner and to the extent as provided for in the surety agreement referred
to in subsection C3e of this section and commensurate to the extent of the
acceptance by the county engineer of the work, or other improvements called for
in the surety agreement.
         e.   Deposit For Completion Of Required Improvements: An applicant or
other interested party, in lieu of completion of the required minimum street
and other improvements required by subsection C3b of this section, or any
portion thereof, may deposit with the county clerk a surety bond or performance
bond, or a certified check or a cashier's check drawn on a bank qualified to do
business in the state, or a cash deposit, or an acceptable letter of credit,
certificate of deposit, or assignment of funds on deposit in a bank or building
and loan association, qualified to do business in the state, and the amount of
such surety called for to be equal to not less than one hundred twenty percent
(120%) of the cost of required improvements according to the estimate reviewed
and approved by the Ada County engineer, and in all cases such surety shall be
drawn in favor of, and payable to the order of the county of Ada, in accordance
with the provisions contained in the surety agreement by and between the
guarantor and the county of Ada. Such surety agreement shall contain suitable
provisions requiring the applicant to construct all improvements.
         f.   Notice Of Installation: The applicant shall be required to give
the county engineer two (2) days' advance notice of any and all construction of
required improvements.
         g.   Certificates: Provisions requiring compliance by the applicant
prior to recording of final plat shall be:
            (1)   A certificate by the county engineer certifying that the
applicant has complied with one of the following alternatives:
               (A)   All improvements have been installed in accordance with
the requirements of this article and with the action of the board giving
conditional approval of the preliminary plat; or
               (B)   An acceptable surety arrangement has been posted, which is
available to the county, and in sufficient amount to assure such completion of
all required improvements.
            (2)   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or
deductions as may be required by the commission in the enforcement of this
article.
            (3)   Protective covenants in form for recording if required.
      4.   Dedication Of Streets: All public streets shall be done in
accordance with the provisions of this article and the Ada County highway
district's rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
   D.   Parcel Boundary Adjustment: The director may approve the adjustment of
platted or unplatted parcel boundary lines. The approval process shall be as
follows:
      1.   Application: All owners of parcels involved in parcel boundary
adjustment shall submit a completed standard application to the director.
      2.   Tentative Approval: The director shall apply the following standards
to determine whether or not approval of the proposed parcel boundary adjustment
will be granted:
         a.   A parcel boundary adjustment shall not reduce the parcel site
below the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by this article.
         b.   A parcel boundary adjustment shall not increase the original
number of parcels.
         c.   A parcel boundary adjustment shall not change or move any public
streets, private streets, easements, or publicly dedicated areas in any manner.
      3.   Final Approval: Upon tentative approval of the application by the
director, the applicant shall:
         a.   Cause the property to be surveyed and a record of survey
recorded;
         b.   Execute and record the necessary deeds to accomplish the parcel
boundary adjustments as approved;
         c.   Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County assessor; and
         d.   Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds
and the new tax parcel numbers to the director.
      4.   Certificate Of Approval Issuance: Upon determination by the director
that the final parcel boundary adjustment is in conformance with this section,
a certificate of approval shall be issued.
      5.   Required Fees: All required fees must be paid in accordance with
chapter 7, article A of this title.
   E.   Administrative Permit Use Approval Process: Both the residential use
and nonresidential use categories listed in subsections
8-21A-5B and C of this article, respectively, contain acceptable administrative
permit uses. The development of any administrative permit use requires an
administrative permit.
Administrative permit uses contained within subsections
8-21A-5B and C of this article are approved as follows:
      1.   Approval Required By The Director: In view of the potential impact
upon adjacent property from an administrative permit use, the granting of such
a permit shall be subject to review and approval by the director.
The applicant shall submit an application, as provided by the director, and pay
a fee to the director in accordance with the provisions contained in this
article. The fee schedule for administrative permits shall be proposed by the
director and approved by the board.
      2.   Information Required On Application: The application for an
administrative permit shall include the following information and materials:
         a.   A vicinity map at a scale of three hundred feet (300') per one
inch (1").
         b.   A statement describing the project in narrative form.
         c.   A general description of how adjacent and neighboring properties
will be protected from adverse effects, if any, prompted by the proposed
development.
         d.   A statement setting forth the maximum overall gross floor area
and, if applicable, the floor area ratio proposed, and the maximum gross floor
area and floor area ratio proposed for each use in the proposed development.
         e.   A statement setting forth the number of parking spaces, and the
general location and character, whether surface or structured, thereof, if
applicable.
         f.   A statement of the improvements, public or private, on or off
site, proposed for construction or dedication, and an estimate of the timing of
providing such improvements.
         g.   A conceptual design plan, at an acceptable scale, showing, to the
extent applicable, the location and arrangement of all proposed uses, the
proposed traffic circulation plan including points of access, parking areas,
major streets and major pedestrian, bike, or other recreational paths, all
proposed major open space and landscaped areas, and the approximate location of
all proposed community and public facilities.
         h.   Such additional information as the director may require, or the
applicant may desire to submit, in order to facilitate review and consideration
of the administrative permit use.
      3.   Notices And Meetings: The director shall mail notices to property
owners within three hundred feet (300') of the external lot line of the
property under consideration, and fifteen (15) days shall be allowed for
response to said notice.
It shall be the sole duty of the applicant and not that of Ada County to
provide notice and opportunity for a meeting at least fourteen (14) days prior
to the administrative permit decision before the director to review the
proposed project to all residents within three hundred feet (300') of the
exterior boundary of the application parcel, and to all applicable community
associations within the Hidden Springs planned community. Such meeting or
opportunity for a meeting shall take place not more than six (6) months before
submittal of the application. Verification of a meeting, or that an opportunity
for a meeting was provided, shall be submitted in writing by the applicant to
the director.
      4.   Approval/Findings: The director shall consider the following
criteria in determining whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny
said administrative permit:
         a.   The proposed administrative permit use is designed to mitigate
any substantial adverse impacts, hazard or nuisance, or other material
detriment to surrounding lands;
         b.   The site is of sufficient size to accommodate the proposed use
and all yards, open spaces, walls, fences, parking, loading areas, landscaping
and design standards as are required by this article are met;
         c.   The proposed development is designed in accordance with public
facilities, services, transportation systems and essential public services
which are adequate for the development proposed, and which are available, or
reasonably probable to be achieved, prior to use and occupancy of the
development; and
         d.   The proposed use substantially complies with the Hidden Springs
specific plan and this article.
      5.   Conditions: An application for an administrative permit shall be
approved by the director contingent upon acceptance and observance of specified
conditions including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Conformity to approved conceptual design plans;
         b.   Performance standards, related to the emission of noise,
vibration, glare and other potentially adverse impacts;
         c.   Limits on time of day for the conduct of specified activities;
         d.   The period within which the permit shall be exercised or
otherwise lapse;
         e.   Guarantees as to compliance with the terms of the approval;
         f.   A continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping
practices to prevent the creation of a nuisance;
         g.   Performance standards, which protect the public health, safety
and welfare and mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
      6.   Application Time Frame: An application for an administrative permit
shall be acted upon by the director within not more than sixty (60) days
following acceptance of the application. Administrative permit uses may only be
granted as allowed by this article.
      7.   Amendments: Once an administrative permit has been approved, the
applicant may seek an amendment using the same procedures as an initial
administrative permit use application.
   F.   Accessory Use Provisions: The director shall make the determination as
to whether a building, structure or use is accessory to a principal permitted
use or administrative permit use, and may issue zoning certificates if a use is
determined to be accessory and would otherwise comply with this article.
The determination of whether a building, structure or use is accessory shall be
based upon the relationship of the building, structure or use to the principal
permitted use or administrative permit use. Specifically, it must be habitually
or commonly established as reasonably incidental to the principal permitted use
or administrative permit use and located and conducted on the same premises as
the principal permitted use or administrative permit use. In determining
whether it is accessory, the following factors shall be used:
      1.   The size of the lot in question;
      2.   The nature of the principal permitted or administrative permit use;
      3.   The zoning and land use on adjacent lots;
      4.   The actual incidence of similar accessory uses in the area; and
      5.   The potential for adverse impact on adjacent property.
The applicant shall submit an application on an approved form together with the
established fee. The director, after reviewing said application, shall approve,
approve with conditions, or deny said application within sixty (60) days of his
acceptance of the application.
   G.   Employment Center Approval Process: The Hidden Springs zoning map and
subsection 8-21A-5C6 of this article provide for "employment center" overlay
districts. These employment center overlay districts and the permitted and
accessory uses are consistent with the overall goals and policies and purposes
and intent of the Hidden Springs specific plan and this article. The exact
impacts of the employment center uses are difficult to determine until the
specific use is identified and evaluated. As part of the application for an
employment center use being considered in the Hidden Springs planned community,
additional studies and analysis of the specific use as well as a public hearing
before the commission are required.
      1.   Application Submittal: The applicant shall submit an application to
the director in accordance with the provisions contained in this article. The
fee schedule for employment center permits shall be proposed by the director
and approved by the board. The director shall set the date for a public hearing
and the notice of hearing shall be given in accordance with subsections G2 and
G3 of this section.
      2.   Date Of Application: The date of application shall be the date that
the director accepts a complete application including payment of the required
fee and all of the information in the manner as required by this article. The
date for the required public hearings shall be fixed by the director, within a
reasonable time thereafter, and in no case later than sixty (60) days after
receipt of the application in its due form. Hearing and notice procedures shall
be governed by chapter 7, article A of this title, and Idaho Code section 67-
6501 et seq., as shall be amended from time to time and by such rules and
procedures as the commission and the board may adopt pursuant to this article
and this title.
      3.   Hearings: At every public hearing before the commission, the
commission shall hear all interested persons, or their representative. The
commission shall receive, investigate, hear and take action upon every
application received. In acting upon the applications involving property, the
commission may require reasonable conditions of approval that it deems
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare and prevent adverse
impacts on surrounding parties. Action of the commission shall be documented.
      4.   Information Required On Application: The application for an
employment center use permit shall include the information and materials
required for an administrative permit application and such other information as
the director shall identify in the preapplication conference as described in
subsection B of this section.
      5.   Approval/Findings: An application for an employment center use
permit may be approved only if the evidence at the hearings establishes that
the proposed employment center use:
         a.   Utilizes site planning and general building massing and
architecture themes that maintain or enhance the rural character of the Dry
Creek Valley and surrounding areas;
         b.   Maintains or enhances the natural environmental qualities of the
land and does not disrupt existing environmental systems;
         c.   Minimizes the visual impact of development by capitalizing on the
site's existing landforms and supplemental grading and landscaping;
         d.   Connects to the projectwide network of roadways, paths and trails
in an integrated manner;
         e.   Augments community water and sanitary wastewater collection and
treatment systems sufficiently to support the proposed use without impacting
the quality of service to residential and commercial uses within the community;
         f.   Is designed to mitigate any substantial adverse impacts, hazard
or nuisance, or other material detriment to surrounding lands;
         g.   Is of sufficient size to accommodate the proposed use;
         h.   Is designed in accordance with public facilities, services,
transportation systems and essential public services which are adequate for the
development proposed, and which are available, or reasonably probable to be
achieved prior to use and occupancy of the development; and
         i.   Is consistent with the general intent of the Hidden Springs
specific plan.
      6.   Employment Center Use Permit Granted: The granting of an employment
center use permit shall be subject to compliance with the Hidden Springs
specific plan and this article. Employment center uses may only be granted as
allowed by this article.
      7.   Employment Center Use Permit Approval: An application for an
employment center use permit shall be approved by the commission contingent
upon acceptance and observance of specified conditions including, but not
limited to, the following:
         a.   Conformity to approved conceptual design plans;
         b.   Performance standards, related to the emission of noise,
vibration, glare and other potentially adverse impacts;
         c.   Limits on time of day for the conduct of specified activities;
         d.   The period within which the permit shall be exercised or
otherwise lapse;
         e.   Guarantees as to compliance with the terms of the approval;
         f.   A continuous obligation to maintain adequate operational
practices to prevent the creation of a nuisance; and
         g.   Performance standards, which protect the public health, safety
and welfare and mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
      8.   Amendments: Once an employment center use permit has been approved,
an applicant may seek an amendment using the same procedures as an initial
employment center application.
   H.   Building Permits: Building permits and grading permits shall be issued
in accordance with the Ada County building code ordinance; provided, however,
that no building or grading permit shall be issued to an applicant until such
time as the applicant has provided to the county a certificate issued by the
Hidden Springs design review committee approving the proposed building
improvements and/or grading for which the building permit or grading permit is
being sought.
   I.   Public Community Event Permit Approval Process: The holding of a public
community event requires a public community event permit.
   Public community event permits are approved as follows:
      1.   Approval Required By The Director: In view of the potential impact
upon adjacent property from a public community event, the granting of such a
permit shall be subject to review and approval by the director.
The applicant shall submit an application, as approved by the director, and pay
a fee to the director in accordance with the provisions contained in this
article.
      2.   Information Required On Application: The application for a public
community event permit shall include the following information and materials:
         a.   Time, place, duration and location of event;
         b.   Nature of event;
         c.   Estimated attendance;
         d.   Prior to submittal of a public event permit application, the
applicant shall submit written approval of the event plan from the following
agencies to development services (the approval may be either on agency
letterhead referring to the approved plan or may be written/stamped upon a copy
of the approved plans):
            (1)   Central district health department,
            (2)   Ada County sheriff,
            (3)   North Ada County fire and rescue district;
         e.   Sanitary facilities to be provided, if any;
         f.   Traffic and parking management plans, if any;
         g.   Special security measures, if any;
         h.   Name, address and telephone number of event holder.
      3.   Approval/Findings: The director shall consider the following
criteria in determining whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny
said permit:
         a.   The proposed site is of sufficient size to accommodate the event;
and
         b.   The proposed sanitary facilities, traffic and parking plan,
security measures, and fire protection and/or prevention measures are adequate
for the proposed event.
      4.   Time Frame: An application for a public community event permit shall
be submitted at least twenty five (25) days prior to the scheduled event. The
director shall accept or reject the application for good cause shown, in
writing, within five (5) days. Once the application has been formally accepted
the director shall act upon the application within five (5) days.
   J.   Signs: Signs are allowed throughout Hidden Springs. Chapter 4, article
I of this title shall not be applicable to signs within Hidden Springs. The
design review committee shall have exclusive authority to approve all temporary
signs within Hidden Springs. Temporary signs shall be those with a dimension of
eighteen (18) square feet or less in sign fascia and shall be in existence for
a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or less. The director shall review
and approve or deny a sign in accordance with the design guidelines as set
forth in section
8-21A-10 of this article.
   K.   Appeals: Actions taken by the director or commission to approve or deny
any plat application, administrative permit use application, public community
event permit application, sign application, or accessory use determination and
including any condition of approval or denial thereof, may be appealed to the
board by the applicant or any adversely affected, or aggrieved person.
   L.   Expenses For Processing Applications: All expenses necessary to provide
the data required hereunder for processing and/or qualifying an application
shall be paid by the applicant through the fee schedule process referenced
herein.
   M.   Violations And Penalties: Each violation of this article set forth
herein shall be a misdemeanor. Each violation for each day it shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense, and each violation shall be punishable as
provided in section 18-113, Idaho Code as it may from time to time be amended
and/or retitled.
Whenever the director shall determine that a violation of these regulations has
occurred, or is about to occur, he shall notify the board of such violation and
recommend action that should be taken. Upon determination of a violation,
whether or not a recommendation has been received from the director, the board
may request the Ada County prosecuting attorney to commence action, criminal or
civil, to correct the violation and to punish the same.
In the event any action is taken in violation of a provision hereof, the proper
authorities of the county, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful development of land,
to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to prevent any illegal act,
conduct, business or use in or about such premises. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd.
Ord. 344, 9-10-1997; amd. Ord. 356, 5-13-1998; amd. Ord. 603, 1-30-2006; amd.
Ord. 793, 12-7-2011)
8-21A-8: AMENDMENTS:
This article and/or the specific plan shall be amended in the same manner as
provided in this title for amendments to the Ada County zoning ordinance. The
specific plan shall be amended by resolution of the board. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997)
8-21A-9: SPECIFIC PLAN:
8-21A-9-1: VISION STATEMENT:
Vision:   The primary vision of Hidden Springs is the creation of a rural
community in the tradition of small towns spread throughout Idaho. In
accomplishing this goal the traditional character of the Dry Creek area will be
maintained, while allowing for low density residential development. In
addition, development of the Hidden Springs community is intended to provide
residents with a clear sense of place. The Hidden Springs plan includes a small
Village Center; a general store; a school site; fire and sheriff facilities;
playing fields; and recreation facilities.
Another principal element of the Hidden Springs vision is an emphasis on
protecting and enhancing the natural environment. Plans for development are
based on careful analysis of the physical and ecological characteristics of the
land. Design standards and guidelines will ensure that only a very small
fraction of the land is ever developed or disturbed and that homes will be
compatible with the environmental systems of the area.
Perhaps most importantly, Hidden Springs has been conceived as an integrated
rural planned community with requisite maintenance and operating entities and
established development standards and design guidelines. When people make the
choice to live in Hidden Springs it will be with a vision of what the community
and its surroundings will be like both now and in the future.
Major Plan Elements:   Traditional Village Center:
The Village Center is envisioned as a rural community center built around a
general store, small scale shops and restaurants, a community center,
recreation facilities and other appropriate commercial and community amenities.
The Village Center will also include a fire station and sheriff's office.
Density And Community Diversity:
Hidden Springs specific plan assumes one thousand thirty five (1,035) units on
one thousand seven hundred sixty five (1,765) acres, for an overall density of
about one unit per one and seven-tenths (1.7) acres. A range of housing types
and prices, from farm/ranch lots to townhomes will offer a diversity of living
options from rural to traditional north end style housing. This concept
promotes community diversity by offering a variety of housing opportunities for
first time buyers through large families to empty nesters.
Traffic Reduction:
Hidden Springs is planned and designed to reduce reliance on the automobile and
to minimize and contain vehicle trips, by:
   •Providing a general store, schools, and on site recreation that will keep
trips from going outside the project area.
   •Directing traffic southwest to State Street via Gary Lane and westward to
Highway 55 and Eagle Road.
   •Providing a park and ride lot in the Village Center.
   •Creating an extensive pedestrian and bicycle path system.
   •Incorporating advanced technology to encourage and support telecommuting.
Trails And Greenbelt:
Hidden Springs will initiate and provide the foundation for major additions to
the Boise foothills trail system, including:
   •A publicly accessible greenbelt system for all of Dry Creek Valley, from
Bogus Basin Road to Eagle, for both public recreation and wildlife habitat
protection.
   •Public access along Dry Creek, the western foothills and to trail systems
beyond.
   •In addition, Hidden Springs will feature a comprehensive internal
pedestrian and bicycle path system to encourage nonmotorized transportation and
on site recreation.
Wildlife:
The plans for Hidden Springs place strong emphasis on promoting wildlife,
including:
   •The conservation and enhancement of large upland and riparian areas as
wildlife habitat or migration corridors.
   •Attention to both game and nongame wildlife needs.
   •A unique set of development standards and design guidelines prepared to
minimize conflicts between wildlife and development through landscape design
and domestic pet controls.
   •Conservation and enhancement of the Dry Creek greenbelt corridor.
Design And Development Standards:
Plans and designs for Hidden Springs have been built from the ground up with
sensitivity to the site's unique qualities and character. The built community
will be based on standards including:
   •Tucking new development into coves, and avoiding "ridge chopping"
construction techniques.
   •Locating roads to follow natural contours and approach development from
draws and the rear to minimize visual impacts of road cuts.
   •Designating building envelopes to ensure maintenance of the rural character
and to minimize visual impacts of development.
   •Designing landscape envelopes around homes to ensure the predominance of
the indigenous vegetation and reduce water usage.
Water Conservation:
A water conservation program will be employed to reduce water requirements for
homes built in Hidden Springs compared with conventional development with
similar types of homes in the Boise area. The conservation program will
include:
   •A Xeriscape or low water consumption approach to new installed landscape.
   •Limitation to areas to be landscaped.
   •Use of advanced irrigation technology.
   •Building design requirements for low flow or low water use fixtures.
   •Educational materials provided to all homeowners. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997;
amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord. 697, 8-26-2008)
8-21A-9-2: GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES:
Community Goals,
Objectives And Policies:   The goals, objectives and policies for the community
of Hidden Springs are as follows:
      1.   Create a rural community and a traditional Village Center.
      2.   Preserve and enhance the rural character of Hidden Springs in
general and for the project site in particular.
      3.   Conserve and enhance wildlife habitat and migration corridors.
      4.   Maintain and enhance the natural environmental qualities of the
land, and air and water quality.
      5.   Implement trip reduction strategies to reduce vehicular trip
generation and minimize the number of vehicle trips outside the community.
      6.   Direct traffic to existing collector, state highways, and arterial
streets to the south and west.
      7.   Provide for a mix of housing types and densities and commercial
activities in order to provide for a strong and diverse community.
      8.   Minimize negative visual impacts of new development.
      9.   Provide a network of public and private paths for bicycles,
pedestrians and, where appropriate, equestrians, to allow ease of movement
around the community.
      10.   Provide for an irrigation delivery system for agricultural land and
common areas.
      11.   Provide a publicly accessible greenbelt area and path along Dry
Creek within the project site and on-site trails which link to the foothills
regional trail system.
      12.   Ensure that the community has all essential public services and
mechanisms in place to maintain and operate such systems.
      13.   Establish project, site and building design guidelines that will
minimize the threat and assist in the control of wildfires.
      14.   Provide sites for schools, a fire station and law enforcement
facilities.
      15.   Create parks, playing fields and recreational facilities.
      16.   Establish a community association with appropriate responsibilities
for maintenance, management and governance of Hidden Springs. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997)
8-21A-9-3: POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT TRENDS:
The following table documents population estimates and projections for Ada
County and planning areas within the County. These numbers have been adopted by
the Ada Planning Association as the basis for planning activities in Ada
County. Future population increases for Ada County have been forecast at an
average annual rate of approximately three percent (3%). The rate of growth for
1990-1995 three and eight-tenths percent (3.8%), is considerably greater than
the two percent (2%) average rate seen between 1980 and 1990.
Growth Patterns:   The number of households continues to increase dramatically,
surpassing population growth. This rapid growth pattern reflects a decrease in
persons per household. Increase for the period 1990-1995 is estimated to be
approximately 48,204 people for a 1995 estimated population of 253,954. Ada
Planning Association (APA) data projects that between 1995 and 2000, 36,000 new
residents can be expected for a total of 290,000.
Hidden Springs is located within the Ada Planning Association Area called
Rural. More specifically it is located mostly within the Traffic Zone 211 which
lies north of Hill Road and between Pierce Park and Seaman's Gulch Roads. The
data for Traffic Zone 211 shows population doubling and households increasing
by approximately one hundred percent (100%) from 1990 to 1995.
Alternative Plans:   Ada County, the City of Boise and other local agencies
have been moving forward in their evaluation of a land use plan for the
foothills area, which covers the foothill area from Lucky Peak west to Highway
55 and includes the Dry Creek Valley and Hidden Springs. The Ada County
Comprehensive Plan has been updated and adopted. The County anticipates
consideration of the foothills plan in 1997.
Residential Development
Patterns:   Residential development in the Dry Creek Valley has historically
been farm and ranch related. Since the mid-1980's however, significant numbers
of rural residential homes on sites ranging from one to twenty five (1–25)
acres have been constructed. The pattern of rural residential construction
along Dry Creek on the west side of Highway 55 is very extensive. Homes in that
area are generally on lots from one-fourth (1/4) acre to five (5) acres. Demand
for residential lots in Dry Creek to the east of Highway 55, which includes the
Hidden Springs vicinity, is reported by property owners and realtors to be very
high, although supply to this point has been limited to lot splits and small
subdivisions.
Rapid growth in the Boise area is resulting in new development in a number of
areas that have previously been predominantly rural. Hidden Springs, if built
out completely in a fifteen (15) year period through 2010, would accommodate
three percent (3%) of the population growth projected for Ada County.
Development Rationale
And Justification:   Hidden Springs is intended to accommodate and respond to
the continued population growth Ada County is anticipated to experience. The
Dry Creek Valley is identified in the current draft (and all previous drafts)
of the city of Boise foothills plan as an area appropriate for development and
urban densities. The physical and environmental characteristics of the Dry
Creek Valley as well as the location of the valley in relation to existing and
anticipated transportation networks make the area an appropriate place to
accommodate planned community growth needs. Hidden Springs is also closer to
the primary employment centers than much of the residential development
occurring on prime farmland on the urban fringes.
Hidden Springs, at build-out, projects a total population of two thousand five
hundred eighty eight (2,588), with school enrollment at five hundred eighteen
(518). The project will provide a unique rural community and development
alternative that is otherwise not available in Ada County. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999)
8-21A-9-4: POPULATION PROJECTIONS:
   Ada County Population Projections By Planning Area
Planning Area 1990 US 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015
              Census
   Ada County Population Projections By Planning Area
Planning Area 1990 US 1995    2000    2005    2010    2015
              Census
Airport       749     814     821     786     734     662
Central Bench 35,713  39,635  40,759  40,451  40,723  41,417
Eagle         5,970   8,517   11,474  11,616  12,161  13,387
Garden City   6,620   8,536   9,559   9,722   10,135  10,707
Kuna          2,418   3,015   3,352   3,295   3,528   3,973
Meridian      12,412  21,251  30,049  31,331  35,571  40,607
North River                                       
Downtown      3,022   3,025   3,403   3,873   4,031   4,059
East End      5,925   6,677   6,993   6,986   7,203   7,470
Foothills     7,679   8,910   9,949   10,547  11,335  12,172
North End     15,645  16,910  17,453  17,198  17,549  17,993
Northwest     9,886   13,958  14,690  16,379  16,691  17,163
Southeast     21,742  29,892  34,536  36,891  40,910  46,014
Southwest     20,090  21,255  24,570  28,089  29,745  32,749
West Bench    44,304  55,571  62,593  65,995  69,961  74,344
Rural County  13,575  15,988  19,754  24,682  32,564  41,123
Total         205,750 253,954 289,955 307,841 332,841 363,840
 
 
         1990                  1995                  2000
TAZ #211 Population Households Population Households Population Households
        156 59                308 122               447 182
 
Source: Ada Planning Association, 1995 Preliminary Projections
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-5: EXISTING CONDITIONS OVERVIEW:
   The predevelopment conditions section of this specific plan is a
comprehensive overview of the existing conditions at Hidden Springs. This
information has been compiled through the efforts of a team of planning and
technical consultants that represent a wide range of expertise. Combining
national experience with a strong local familiarity in their respective fields,
these planners, landscape architects, engineers, archaeologists, geologists,
economists, attorneys and natural resource specialists have all integrated
their work to develop the background reports, maps and diagrams included
herein. Each piece of information was developed through extensive agency
coordination, field review, public input and background research by the
individual team members.
As part of this process, much of the critical existing natural, cultural and
environmental components of Hidden Springs have been mapped and diagrammed
through computer technology and a data base available in geographic information
systems (GIS). This material was subsequently overlaid and composited into an
analysis that identified the opportunities and limitations at Hidden Springs,
providing the foundation for many of the critical land use strategies for the
planning and development of Hidden Springs. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-6: VICINITY MAP:
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_link_to_Vicinity_Map
   Fig. 2-A
8-21A-9-7: HISTORICAL OVERVIEW:
A History Of Dry
Creek Valley, 1860s
To 1940s:    The south fork of Dry Creek flows into a valley about a half (1/2)
mile wide and two (2) miles long. Cottonwoods dot the creek bed and sage-
covered sandstone hills surround the green valley floor. The Dry Creek area
includes the region east from present day Highway 55, to Stewart Gulch and
north from Hill Road to the Boise County line.
Boise Basin gold discoveries in 1863 brought hundreds of miners pouring into
the region. Miners from played out Oregon and California gold camps came
through Payette Valley, Horseshoe Bend, and by the new city of Boise, which was
platted that year. It was situated next to the U.S. Army fort site selected by
Major Pinckney Lugenbeel at the crossroads of the Oregon Trail and the road to
the Boise Basin gold mines. Idaho Territory was established that year, with
Boise named as its capital in 1864. Idaho first included what is now Montana
and almost all of Wyoming. With the creation of Montana Territory in 1864 and
Wyoming Territory in 1868, Idaho received its permanent boundaries. (1)
Boise became the major distribution site for Basin mining supplies and fresh
produce. Many miners found it more profitable to make a living by raising
livestock and some vegetables to sell to their counterparts and local soldiers,
rather than mining the elusive gold. Small communities appeared throughout the
Boise Basin as new settlers made their homes along creeks and rivers. There
they could easily raise stock and crops and had ready access to local markets.
The Dry Creek Valley was one such community. It was centrally located near
roads leading to the Boise Basin mines and the Boise Army barracks. An 1863
branch of the Oregon Trail passed nearby. Dry Creek's location, natural
pastureland and rich soil made it a desirable setting. The creek and natural
springs provided plentiful water for the stock and crops. For a short time in
Dry Creek Valley, a stage station and stone hotel served travelers on their way
to Boise Basin. (2)
Homestead records and deeds document eight land claims in Dry Creek Valley by
1864. One of the earliest settlers was P. L. Schick, who homesteaded what is
now the Hidden Springs property in late 1864 with George Banker. They started
out with five (5) horses, one wagon, one plow, and a harrow. Eventually Schick
bought out Banker's interest in the property. Schick's assets, listed in the
1890 Ada County Assessor's records, show a man of substantial means:
 
money on deposit $ 700.00
2 vehicles       75.00
harness          25.00
55 stock horses  1,100.00
3 cows           60.00
7 cattle         84.00
7 hogs           20.00 (3)
 
Schick and his family raised stock and farmed in the area until at least 1907.
Transportation networks in the region developed rapidly. In 1869 Alexander
Rossi and A. H. Robie built a toll road from their Shafer Creek lumber mill,
located near present-day Horseshoe Bend. The road ran to mining areas near
Sinker Creek in Owyhee County. The road continued to make Dry Creek Valley a
thoroughfare for many people. Rossi and Robie's mill supplied building
materials for Boise, Silver City and other mining communities. The toll rates
were two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for one wagon and a span of horses or
cattle and fifty cents ($0.50) for each additional span. (4)
Rossi and Robie ran the toll road until 1881, when Thomas Healy was granted a
license to maintain the road "...from the crossing of Dry Creek to what is
known as the Rossi Mill at Shafer Creek." (5) Healy typified many settlers of
the Boise Valley. He first tried his hand at prospecting in Silver City and
Atlanta. When that venture was not successful, he moved to Boise and formed a
partnership with Frank Bailey to buy the Rossi sawmill. He maintained and ran
the toll road until he sold it to Boise County in 1907. It was first called the
Rossi Toll Road and eventually became known as Healy Toll Road. Toll rates
dropped by 1884 to fifty cents ($0.50) for one wagon and a span of horses or
cattle, with each additional stock or wagon an additional twenty five cents
($0.25). A single horse or vehicle cost twenty five cents ($0.25). Rates stayed
at the same price until the toll road was sold. Thomas Healy remained in the
Dry Creek Valley until his death in 1925. (6)
By 1873, the area residents were raising and marketing hay and oats for the
local Boise market. One local farmer threshed ninety six (96) bushels of oats,
grown on one acre of land. By the winter of 1873 hay was selling for thirty
five dollars ($35.00) to forty dollars ($40.00) a ton, so it became more
profitable for Dry Creek Valley farmers to raise hay than grain. (7) The
newspapers also mentioned the potential of farming in Dry Creek Valley. They
described the Hidden Springs property, which was now a farm under the ownership
of A.J. Wyatt, in detail.
His farm comprises 160 acres, about 140 acres lying on the west side of the
creek, all in one field, with the exception of five acres adjoining his house,
fenced in for orchard and garden purposes. His house is on the same side of the
creek, with a running spring and milk house near by, and another small house
where a tenant or hired men may occupy. The creek runs fifteen or twenty inches
of water the driest time of the year, formed from springs at the source and
along the banks, which increases it to two or three times the amount during the
fore part of the season. (8)
From this land Mr. Wyatt was able to produce one hundred eighty (180) tons of
hay planted on seventy five to eighty (75-80) acres. Local markets remained
strong for hay and oat crops. Some farmers started planting fruit orchards,
consisting mainly of peaches and apricots. (9)
By 1873, Dry Creek Valley had enough families with children to support a
school. In 1878 the school housed twenty nine (29) children between the ages of
five (5) and twenty one (21). The valley's early population supported a second
school by 1918, the Stack Rock school. The Stack Rock community consisted of
ten (10) families located north of Dry Creek Valley. At one time nineteen (19)
students attended the Stack Rock School. (10) Both schools served as the cores
of community social life. Unlike other small agricultural settlements, Dry
Creek Valley did not support a store or a church. Social exchange occurred
through shared farming tasks, visiting neighbors and school activities.
Dry Creek Valley agriculturists practiced dry farming supplemented by readily
available water. Farmers used ditches from the creek to irrigate their crops.
Other farmers took advantage of local artesian wells. Although the Dry Creek
Valley residents did experience some drought years, they managed to make a
basic living from dry farming. Large-scale irrigation never occurred in Dry
Creek Valley. An 1889 newspaper account discusses the need for irrigation:
On Dry Creek, the difficulty is more serious, as there is really but little
water flowing in the creek this season, and the greater portion of it is
absorbed by the sand before it reaches the farms to be supplied. This state of
things proves the necessity of some arrangement by which the waters of the
streams could be held in reservoirs and distributed as needed. (11)
Dry Creek Valley continued to support stockmen and farmers through the turn of
the century. Census records from 1870 to 1920 indicate that the majority of Dry
Creek residents made a living by growing oats, barley and grain. They also
raised horses, cattle, hogs and turkeys. Fruit production flourished until the
1930s. Peaches, prunes and cherries were successfully grown throughout the
valley. The 1910 census indicated that farming remained the main occupation of
almost all Dry Creek Valley family members. (12)
Basque Influence:   A small knot of Basque families began to make Dry Creek
Valley their home by 1910. Basques began immigrating to California in the 1860s
from Spain. By the late 1870s many Basque men had worked their way north to
Nevada, Oregon and Idaho working as herders for the expanding sheep industry.
Some Basques eventually purchased their own farms and ranches. They offered
jobs, homes and moral support to other Basques coming into the country. The
Echeverria family exemplified this pattern. Pedro Echeverria arrived in the
United States in 1900. In 1910 he owned property in Dry Creek Valley. Family
members and other Basques worked as laborers on his farm. Yladio Echanove came
to the U.S. in 1911 and was listed on the 1920 census as a boarder with the
Echeverria family. Eventually the Echanove family bought the Echeverria
property. Members of the Echanove family currently live in Dry Creek Valley.
(13)
After 1900, local newspapers seldom mentioned the Dry Creek area beyond notices
of births, deaths, and club meetings. Dry Creek Valley's heyday had ended. When
the 1860s' mining boom ended, transportation routes changed and Dry Creek
Valley was no longer centrally located. Only Boise City remained as the main
market for local farmers. Dryland wheat production boomed in other southern
Idaho communities from 1910 to 1923, but Dry Creek Valley farmers never
participated in any large-scale crop production. The area also lay outside
lands included in the federally funded Boise Irrigation Project, which promoted
intensive cultivation of row crops. Dryland farmers had to compete with the
increased production and higher quality of irrigated hay and grain. Aggressive
promotion of irrigated lands and new communities caused settlement to shift to
the river valley floor, rather than up in the drier hills. There were still
families who eked out a living in Dry Creek Valley, continuing to farm small
acreages and raise horses and cattle. (14)
A long-term agricultural depression and the onset of the Great Depression made
life difficult for most Dry Creek farmer stockmen. Several families moved away.
Some older students dropped out of school and worked to help their parents and
siblings. The number of Dry Creek Valley school students was cut in half during
the 1930s, and its population never grew again. Natural disasters also
threatened Dry Creek Valley during the 1930s, particularly range fires and
insect invasions. The community pulled together to fend off these disasters.
When the cheat grass-covered hills turned into flames, local farmers used their
field plows to create fire breaks around everyone's property. The "Mormon
Cricket" invasion of the late 1930s swept through the area, but Dry Creek
Valley crops escaped relatively unscathed. Anastasio Ostolasa remembered farm
families beating on pots and pans to scare away the ravenous crickets. (15)
"Gentleman Farmers":   "Gentleman farmers" from Boise also bought some Dry
Creek Valley farms for country living or for increased acreage. Fred Parsons,
who bought the former Schick property and adjacent acreages in the 1930s, was a
retired cashier from Pacific National Bank. His wife Anna Moore came from the
well-known Christopher Moore family, president of Idaho First National Bank.
Parsons dabbled in agriculture and livestock, and hired the Ostalosa family to
oversee the operation of his Dry Creek Valley farm. Constantino Ostolasa had
previously worked at the nearby Spring Valley Ranch. The Parsons lived on their
Dry Creek Valley property and soon made improvements to it. A young Anastasio
Ostolasa helped his father Constantino plant locust trees, which still shade
the lane and dwellings. In the 1940s Parsons sold his Dry Creek Valley holdings
to Jack Dechambeau of Eagle, who used it to supplement his rangeland and feed.
Anastasio Ostolasa brought his war bride from Oregon to the farm and worked for
the Dechambeaus. He continued to live on the property until his recent death in
August 1996. His sisters and wife continue to live on the property. (16)
The Second World War and increased agricultural mechanization took its toll on
the Dry Creek Valley population. America's involvement in the war took many
people out of rural communities to contribute to the war effort. The war had
broadened the world for many farm boys and girls, and introduced them to other
ways of life and people. With tractors and harvesters it took fewer family
members and hired hands to operate a farm. Dry Creek Valley farmers' small
acreages could barely compete with larger corporate operations. Both local
schools were closed by the 1940s, and students rode the bus to Boise schools.
While many people left rural communities like Dry Creek Valley, still others
returned to continue an agricultural lifestyle. Today there are still relatives
of early Dry Creek Valley homesteaders who make a portion of their living from
the land, despite continuing ups and downs in the agricultural business. More
recent landowners moved there to simply enjoy the rural setting, within
relatively easy access to the amenities of city life. The Dry Creek Valley
remains a quiet oasis in Southwestern Idaho's sagebrush hills.
End Notes:   (1) "The Idaho-Montana Boundary Legend," Idaho State Historical
Society (hereafter ISHS) Reference Series, No. 156. Revised January 1966.
            (2)   "Local Brevities," Idaho Tri-Weekly Statesman, 20 September
1873, p. 3.
            (3)   Assessment Rolls, Ada County, Idaho, 1890, p. 239. On
microfilm at the ISHS, Boise.
            (4)   Idaho Tri-Weekly Statesman, 23 October 1869, p. 3.
            (5)   Ada County Commission Records, 1881, Book A, p. 141-142. On
microfilm at the ISHS, Boise.
            (6)   The Idaho Statesman, 1925. See also The Idaho World, February
1907, p. 6.
            (7)   See the Idaho Tri-Weekly Statesman, 9 September 1873, p. 3;
see also 3 January 1874, p. 3.
            (8)   "A. J. Wyatt's Farm," Ibid., 20 September 1873.
            (9)   Ibid., p. 3.
            (10)   Ibid., 21 June 1878, p. 3. See also The Edith S. Hayes
Collection, MS 492, ISHS Archives, Boise; Dorothy Stiff Wyman, Light Upon the
Mountain (Bend, Oregon: Maverick Publications, 1989), p. 19; and field notes of
conversation with Anastasio Ostolasa, 13 July 1994, in authors' personal files.
            (11)   See the following article in "Fifty Years in the Statesman,"
Idaho Daily Statesman, 3 September 1939, p. 8: "Water Supply cause of Row",
(September 1889).
            (12)   U.S. Bureau of the Census, Thirteenth Census of the United
States, 1910 Population, (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1913),
p. 282.
            (13)   Information of Echeverria & Echanove in the "Fourteenth
Census of the United States, 1920 Population," on microfilm at the ISHS.
            (14)   See several issues of the Idaho Daily Statesman, 1910, for
the changing emphasis to irrigated farming and the introduction of dryland
wheat.
            (15)   For descriptions of the Depression, fires and crickets near
Stack Rock, see Dorothy Stiff Wyman's Light Upon the Mountain, p. 76. For
descriptions of the same in the Dry Creek Valley, see field notes of
conversation with Anastasio Ostalosa.
            (16)   For information on Frank Parsons and his holdings on Dry
Creek, see Metzker Map of Ada County, 1936, on file at the ISHS; James H.
Hawley, History of Idaho, Vol. II (Chicago: Clarke Publishing Company, 1920),
pp. 248-249; see also field notes of conversation with Anastasio Ostalosa.
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-8: SLOPES:
         The central portion of the Hidden Springs property is characterized by
the relatively flat valley floor and shallow, even slopes that are found
throughout the Dry Creek Valley as it runs west toward Highway 55. The creek
and valley diagonally bisect the property into two (2) distinct northern and
southern portions that are quite different in slope orientation and
configuration.
On the southern side of the property, toward the west, the valley floor
gradually transitions into moderate slopes as the foothills protrude in finger-
like formations into the site. Between these finger ridges are long, narrow
valleys and gulches with moderate to steep sides. Most of the ridges in this
area have round, flat tops that gradually increase in slope as they move to the
south and off the property.
On the northern portion of the property, a more abrupt transition occurs from
the valley floor into steep slopes immediately north of Dry Creek Road. Above
these wide south- facing slopes are pockets of relatively flat land with a
distinct "bowl" formation that runs east to west, parallel to Currant Creek.
North of Currant Creek, a broad, moderate south- facing slope continues again
north of the power line to a major peak with long backslopes that drop into the
McFarland Creek basin. The canyon that runs north and south along the eastern
edge of the site, through which Cartwright Road runs, has steep sides that
start to diminish and flatten toward the north end of the property.
Much of the slope area in Hidden Springs is less than twenty five percent
(25%), which makes for favorable building sites. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_link_to_Slope_Map_here
   Fig. 2-C
8-21A-9-9: ASPECT/VIEWS/CLIMATE:
Aspect:   The Hidden Springs area is dominated by broad, south and west facing
slopes with high solar exposure in the northern portion of the property, north
of Dry Creek Road. The exceptions to this condition are pockets of north and
east facing slopes within the Currant Creek basin and the north facing slopes
that drop into the McFarland Creek basin. The Dry Creek Valley is generally
flat and open with varying degrees of solar exposure, depending upon tree cover
and proximity to the foothills at the southwest portion of the site. The ridges
and narrow valleys of the foothills that run in a north to south direction in
the southwest portion of the property create long side slopes with a solar
orientation to the east and west. Various pockets of a northern aspect here are
attributed to the ends of the ridgelines and certain areas within the narrow
gulches, between the ridges.
Views:   The views within the Hidden Springs property are generally open, up to
the one hundred eighty degree (180°) range throughout the upper elevations of
the site. Hidden Springs is generally not visible from the Boise area. Views
from the ridgelines on the southern portion of the site extend into Dry Creek
Valley and northward to Bogus Basin.
Climate:   The climate and wind patterns of the Hidden Springs property are
typical of the Boise region. The temperate climate and four seasons are
influenced by storm fronts that originate in the Pacific Ocean. There are
occasional winter temperature inversions with extended periods of fog and cold
that cause air quality problems. There is an average 12 inches of
precipitation. January precipitation averages 1.6 inches with 30 degree
temperatures. The average July precipitation is 0.3 inches with temperatures in
the range of 80 to 100 degrees. It is not uncommon to have 20 to 30 days of no
precipitation in the months of July and August. Typically the area at this
elevation receives a total of 1.5 to 2 feet of snow during the winter months
with snow staying on the ground for an average of 5 to 7 days. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997)
   PDF_link_to_Map_"Aspect"_here
   Fig. 2-D
8-21A-9-10: GEOLOGIC CONDITIONS:
Geologic Overview:   Portions of the geology in the Dry Creek area have been
mapped in the past by K.M. Hollenbaugh, 1972; Othberg and Burnham, 1990; Baker,
1991; and Burnham and Wood, 1992. The unconsolidated soil and rock that
underlie the Hidden Springs property range in age from Pliocene to Holocene,
which is relatively recent in geological time. The Dry Creek area occurs within
a transition zone between fluvial (stream deposited) sediments and lacustrine
(lake deposited) sediments. Certain geologic events that occurred prior to the
emplacement of the known soil and rock in the area greatly influenced the types
of deposition and geomorphology that is characteristic of the area today. These
earlier events include a long period of granitic intrusions, regional uplift,
and volcanism. In addition, evidence of large lake deposition and erosion are
evident in the lower elevations along Dry Creek. Wave cut benches are
characteristic of the lower foothill elevations along the south side of Dry
Creek. Ancestral streams carrying sediments from the adjacent uplands were also
deposited near the lake margins.
Coarse-grained sands were deposited along the stream channels and shores of the
lake. Finer sands and silts were carried down the Dry Creek drainage system.
The sediments that were deposited are collectively known as sediments of the
Idaho Group. Because of the depositional complexity of the sediments in the
Boise foothills (which includes the Dry Creek area), recent lithostratigraphic
formation name changes within the Idaho Group have been reassigned the
Terteling Springs Formation. The formation consists of four (4) distinct
lithologic members of which portions are found in the study area.
Objective:   The surficial geology shows the deposits within the study area and
their general relationships. The geology of an area constitutes the framework
which influences the development of other natural features. Soils developed
from the weathering of the geologic units and both surface and subsurface water
flow are largely controlled by the geologic framework. Successful planning and
engineering development depends upon an understanding of the geology of the
area, as well as an understanding of physical properties of the soil and rock.
The geologic map presented in this report was compiled from known map sources
and field reconnaissance and is a preliminary guide to geologic units and
features for the Hidden Springs area.
Faulting And Seismicity:   Foothills faulting generally occurs in NW/SE and/or
east-west trending normal faults. Distinct separation of foothills and valley
floor often make fault traces. The exception in the Dry Creek area is
separation of lithologic units or nonconformable lateral extension of rock and
soil formations. Splinter faults subparallel and often perpendicular to the
primary faults have helped define the present geomorphology of the area.
Faulting in the foothills is known to consist of single fault plains a few
inches wide or fault zones, several feet to tens of feet wide that are composed
of many interconnected fault plains. Field observation collected during
preliminary site reconnaissances imply that Dry Creek may be structurally
controlled. Observations include linear correlation of primary structures such
as contorted bedding plains, hot springs, and unconformable bedding.
Woodward-Lundgren and Associates identified most foothill faults as inactive.
According to Woodward-Lundgren, there has not been historical movement of the
major faults in the area within the last five hundred thousand (500,000) years.
The U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey in their Seismic Risk Map (1969) and the
Uniform Building Code (1982) assign the area to Zone 2B, indicating moderate
potential for earthquake damage. Zone 2 corresponds to a maximum earthquake
intensity of VII on the modified Mercalli intensity scale. Damage in the study
area would probably be caused by ground shaking due to fault displacement
outside the study area. Miller and Jones (1988) performed a probabilistic
estimation of earthquake intensities for Idaho based on the historic seismic
record. They concluded that there is better than a ninety percent (90%)
probability that the maximum earthquake intensity will be less than VI for the
foothills area for a given fifty (50) year period.
Lithologic Map Units:   The following lithologic descriptions are
characteristic of the geologic units present in the study area.
Biotite Granite And Granodiorite
Areas along the northern and northeastern area of the Hidden Springs property
is underlain by intrusive igneous rocks of the Idaho batholith. Biotite granite
and granodiorite are the dominant rock types. The granites are typically light
gray and medium to coarse-grained. The fracture spacing varies from a few
inches to several feet. The granitics vary from slightly weathered to
decomposed. Differential weathering of the batholithic rocks have exposed large
rounded outcroppings east of Cartwright Road north of Dry Creek.
Terteling Springs Formation
The Terteling Springs Formation is a facies assemblage of sediments and
sedimentary rock mostly of lacustrine or lakeshore depositional environment.
The base of the formation is mapped where these sedimentary deposits rest upon
a thick sequence of plagonite tuff and basalt, or upon rhyolite or the granitic
rock. The formation is composed of tan to light gray silts, sands and clays.
Induration is moderate, although very dense, silica-cemented sandstone is
locally present. The silica cement was precipitated from hydrothermal ground
water which moved through fault conduits. Fracturing is not evident in the sand
layers. Fracture spacing is not evident in the sand layers. Fracture spacing in
the sandstone ranges from six inches (6") to ten feet (10') or more. Some minor
amounts of poorly to well-sorted, light gray to tan sand with minor gravel and
claystone layer are locally present.
Undifferentiated Basalt
A volcanic assemblage of tuffs, basalts and ash occurs beneath and interbedded
with the Terteling Springs Formation. The low shear strength of portions of
this unit are often associated with unstable slopes in the Boise foothills. The
unit often contains expansive clays. The volcanic assemblages are identified by
dark brown soils with mud-cracked and fissured surfaces.
Intracanyon Terrace Gravel
Fluvial sand and sandy gravel with subangular cobbles and boulders are
characteristic of this lithologic unit. These deposits form terraces along some
of the gulches and also flat divides between canyon/gulch near the margins of
the foothill-valley environment. Induration and stratification are relatively
poor. These deposits represent stream and wave cut action of the Dry Creek
drainage.
Quaternary Alluvial Fan Deposits
This unit is comprised of light gray to tan sand and gravel deposits. The sand
and gravel is poorly indurated and poorly stratified. Fracturing is not
evident. The deposits are usually located near the mouth of established
drainages.
Landslide Deposits
This unit is comprised of unsorted, unstratified rock and soil masses which
have been deposited by slumps, landslides and debris flows. The particle size
may range from clay to large boulders. The ground surfaces are hummocky with
flat lobate toes. This unit also includes the scar area from which the soil and
rock mass originated and displaced rock units which are not related to
faulting. The color is dependent upon the source material. Fractures are not
evident. Slope failure is evident in the study area, particularly north of
Current Creek.
Recent Alluvium Deposits
This lithologic unit consists of unconsolidated silt, sand and gravel deposits
of the Dry Creek drainage, Currant Creek and McFarland Creek. Fractures are not
evident. This unit also includes recent flood plain deposits along Dry Creek.
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_link_to_"geologic_conditions"_map
   Fig. 2-E
8-21A-9-11: SOIL CONDITIONS:
Soil Overview:   The surficial soils of the Hidden Springs property are
associated with two (2) Idaho soil geomorphic provinces: the Northern Rocky
Mountain province and the Malheur-Boise Basin of the High Lava Plains
subprovince of the Columbia Intermontane province. The diverse topography
throughout the project area has contributed to a highly variable soil
morphology. The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service has
identified twelve (12) soil classifications for the area.
Objective:   The recognition and/or prediction of soil behavior with respect to
soil morphology is paramount in selecting the correct avenue for land use
planning. Recognition of the diverse soil behavior is useful in adjusting land
use, including the urbanization, to the limitations and potentials of natural
resources and the environment. Planners and others using the soil data can
evaluate the impact of specific land uses on the overall productivity of the
survey area or other broad planning areas and on land use patterns.
Soil Units:   The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service
(SCS) has identified twelve (12) soil units for the Hidden Springs property.
These units are listed below.
 
Brent-Ladd   Ladd-Searles
Cashmere     Lankbush-Brent
Drax Loam    Payette-Quincy
Gem Rock     Quincy-Brent
Goose Creek  Searles-Rock
Haw-Lankbush Vanderhoff
 
Engineering Soils
Table And Map:   Table 1 provides engineering information related to the use of
each soil unit as it relates to building sites, sanitary facilities,
construction material and water management. The engineering data is based on
SCS test data using known relationships between soil properties and the
behavior of soils in various engineering uses. The data presented in the table
can be useful in choosing alternative practices or general designs that will
overcome unfavorable soil properties and minimize soil-related failures.
However, it is important to understand these data do not eliminate the need for
site specific investigations, testing, and analysis.
The accompanying soils map provides a broad perspective of the soils and
associated topography as well as the general diversification of the soil
morphology for the Hidden Springs property.
This preliminary screening of soils properties provides a relatively normal
(without unusual difficulty) geotechnical framework. Within the confines of
regulatory oversight, good design practice and good construction technique
there are no soils characteristics that would preclude development as planned.
1995 Field Observations and Soils Logs:   Table 2: Soil logs provide a summary
of the actual soils observations started in 1995, first as excavations for
soils logs and also as observation wells for long-term observation of ground
water level. Since the first series of observation wells, additional test pits
and observation wells have been installed. Table 3 1 : Ground water depth
observation is a log of the depth to ground water at various observation wells
and test pits. The soils map shows the approximate locations for the original
observation wells and subsequent test pits and new observation wells.
Several important conclusions can be drawn from the soils information mentioned
above.
   •The soils in the valley floor up to the toe of slopes are suited to both
individual and community subsurface treatment systems (subject to the normal
design constraints).
   •Soils classification for the purpose of subsurface treatment systems is C-
2.
   •The relatively fine grained soils and substantial depth to ground water at
the base of the slopes offer several good options for community subsurface
treatment systems.
   •The soils characteristics at the base of the slopes should provide for very
high, equivalent to tertiary, treatment of domestic wastewater.
One Hundred Twenty Acre Annexation Area      The U.S. department of agriculture
natural resources conservation service has identified four (4) soil units for
the one hundred twenty (120) acre annexation area, which has been reduced to
ninety seven (97) acres due to the transfer to twenty three (23) acres to the
Cartwright Ranch planned community in 2007. These units are listed below and
are characterized in table 1A of this section:
   Pierce park
   Shadoval
   Polecat
   Quailridge
   PDF link to "Soils-Annexation Area" and "Soils" maps here
   Fig._2-F-a_"Soils-Annexation_Area"
   Fig._2-F-b_"Soils"
   TABLE 1
   ENGINEERING SOILS TABLE
                          Percent
                          Passing
Soil USDA    Unified Soil Sieve No.   Liquid Plasticity Perme-  Soil     Shrink    Potential
Name Soil    Classificati (Avg)       Limit  Index      ability Reaction Swell     Frost
     Texture on                                                 pH       Potential Action
                          4 10 40 200
                                  Percent Passing
Soil     USDA Soil   Unified Soil Sieve No. (Avg) Liquid Plasticity Perme-  Soil     Shrink    Potential
Name     Texture     Classificati                 Limit  Index      ability Reaction Swell     Frost
                     on           4   10  40  200                           pH       Potential Action

         Loam, Silt  CL-ML
Brent-   Loam, Sandy CH-SM        70- 70- 25-                                        Low to    Low to
Ladd     Clay Loam,              100 90  95  5   10-60  NP-25      .02-20  7.4-8.4  Moderate  Moderate
         Gravelly    GP-SM
         Clay Loam
Cashmere Sandy Loam, SM           80- 80- 50- 15- 20-30  NP-5       2.0-20  6.1-7.8  Low       Moderate
         Loamy Sand               100 100 75  45
         Loam, Sandy
Drax     Loam to     CL-ML        100 90- 85- 55- 20-30  5-10       0.2-2.0 6.6-9.0  Low       Moderate
Loam     Silty Clay                   100 100 90
         Loam
                                                                                    
         Gravelly
         Clay Loam
         Clay, Clay
         Loam,
         Gravelly    SM, CL, CH   65- 55- 40- 35-                                    Low to
Gem Rock Silty Clay  ML, GM-GC    100 100 100 95  20-65  NP-45      0.2-2.0 6.1-9.0  High      Moderate
         Loam, Loam,
         Gravelly
         Loam,
         Unweathered
         Bedrock
Goose    Loam, Sandy                      85- 55-
Creek    Loam to     CL-ML, CL    100 100 100 85  20-40  5-20       0.2-20  6.6-8.4  Moderate  Moderate
         Clay
         Loam, Sandy
         Loam, Clay  ML, CL-ML,
Haw-     Loam, Sandy CL, SM-SC,   85- 85- 45- 5-  20-30  NP- 15     0.2-    6.1- 9.0 Low to    Moderate
Lankbush Clay Loam,  SP-SM        100 100 100 90                    720              Moderate
         Loamy Sand,
         Sand
         Loam,
         Gravelly
         Loam, Clay
         Loam, Sandy
         Clay Loam,  ML, CL-ML,
Ladd-    Sandy Loam, CL, SM-SC,   25- 25- 15- 5-  20-40  NP-15      0.2-20  6.1-7.3  Low to    Moderate
Searles  Gravelly    GM-GC, GP-GC 100 100 100 90                                     Moderate
         Sandy
         Clayey
         Loam,
         Unweathered
         Bedrock
 
 
                                 Percent Passing
                       Unified   Sieve No.                                 Soil     Shrink    Potential
Soil Name  USDA Soil   Soil      (Avg.)          Liquid Plasticity Perme-  Reaction Swell     Frost
           Texture     Classifi-                 Limit  Index      ability pH       Potential Action
                       cation    4   10  40  200

           Sandy Loam,
           Sandy
           Clayey
           Loam,
           Clayey
           Loam, Loam
           Sand, Loamy CL-ML,
Lankbush   Sand, Silt  CH, GM-   40- 40- 25- 5-  10-60  NP-40      <0.06-  6.6-9.0  Low to    Low to
Brent      Gravelly    GP, SM,   100 100 100 90                    20               High      Moderate
           Silt Loam,  SP-SM, SC
           Gravelly
           Loam, Clay,
           Sandy Clay,
           Gravelly
           Clay Loam,
           Sand
           Sandy Loam,
           Gravelly
           Sandy Loam, SM, GM-
Payette-   Coarse      GC, CL-   60- 60- 35- 5-  20-30  NP-10      6.0-720 6.1-8.4  Low       Low to
Quincy     Sand, Loamy ML, CL-   100 100 95  75                                               Moderate
           Sand,       ML, SP-SM
           Gravelly
           Loamy Sand
           Gravelly
           Loamy Sand,
           Sandy Loam,
           Silt Loam,
           Sandy Clay,
           Clay Loam,  SM, CL-
Quincy-    Sand,       ML, CH,   40- 40- 25- 5-                    <0.06-           Lo w to
Brent      Gravelly    GP-GM,    100 100 100 90  10-60  NP-40      20      6.1-8.4  High      Low
           Sand,       SP-SM
           Gravelly
           Clay Loam,
           Gravelly
           Silt Loam,
           Gravelly
           Loam
           Stony Loam,
           Gravelly
Searles-   Clay Loam,  ML, CL-   30- 20- 20- 15-                                    Low to
Rock       Cobbly      ML, SM-SC 80  75  70  55  30-40  NP-15      0.2-2.0 6.6-7.3  Moderate  Moderate
           Loam,
           Unweathered
           Bedrock
           Stony Loam,
           Gravelly
           Loam, Silt  ML, CL-   80- 60- 40- 25-
Vanderhoff Loam, Sandy ML, SM-SC 100 100 100 80  20-30  NP-10      0.6-2.0 7.4-9.0  Low       Low
           Loam,
           Weathered
           Bedrock
 
TABLE 1A
ENGINEERING SOILS TABLE
 
                                 Percent Passing
              USDA    UnifiSieve No. (Avg)                           Perme-   Soil     Shrink    Potential
   Soil    Soil    Soil                         Liquid Plasticity ability  Reaction Swell     Frost
Name          Textu   AASHT4    10     40    200   Limit  Index      Inch/    pH       Potential Action
                                                                           Hour

           Course
           Sandy
           Loam       SC
                      
           Sandy       
           Loam       SM
Pierce                         100  75–1050–640–525–305–10     2.0–6.06.6–7.8Low to    Low to
Park (244) Sandy      SC-SM                                                                  moderate  moderate
           Clay        
           Loam        
                     A1, A2
           Gravelly
           Sandy
           Loam
           Silt loam  CL
                      
Shadoval   Silty clay CH                                                                     Low to
(315)      Loam                 100  95–1085–975–825–605–40     0.6–2.06.6–8.4high      Moderate
                      
           Clay       CL-ML
           Loam       A4, A6, A7
           Silt loam
                     CL
Polecat    Silty clay                                                                       Low to
(316)      loam       CL-ML      100  95–1090–985–925–455–20     0.6–2.06.6–8.4moderate  Moderate
                      
           Clay       A4, A6, A7
           Loam
           Coarse
           Sandy      SC
           Loam        
                      
           Sandy      SC-SM
Quailridge Clay                 0–175–1060–950–725–5025–40    2.0–20.6.6–7.8Low to    Moderate
(358)      Loam                                                                             moderate
                      
           Gravelly    
           Sandy      A2, A6
           Clay
           Loam
 
   Table 2
   Soils Logs - 1995
 
Estimated         Pit #OW1                                           Estimat   Pit #    Estimat   Pit #OW3
   5% Slope                                                          3% SlopOW2            8% Slope
   0-28"                                                                       Clay loam                Silty clay
                                                                                 (28% clay),              loam (30%
                                                                                 10YR 2/2,                clay), 10YR
                                                                                 common fine    0-14"  3/2, many
                                                                                 roots, few              fine roots,
                                                                       0-36"  medium and              C-2
              Clay loam (30% clay), 10YR 3/2, many fine and few                 course                   
   28-54"   medium roots, C-2 Design Soil Subgroup                            roots, C-1              Very dense
                                                                                             14-168"silty lake
              Clay loam (35% clay), 10YR 3/2, many fine roots C-2              Clay loam               sediments,
                                                                               (30%+                   very slowly
              Silty clay (45% clay), 10YR 3/4, few fine roots,         36-56" clay), 10YR             permeable to
   66-92"   unsuitable                                                        3/2, common             impermeable,
                                                                               fine and                gleyed and
              Sandy clay loam, (30% clay), 10YR 4/6, no roots, C-1              few medium              mottled
                                                                               roots, C-2              (mottled are
              Silt loam (15% clay), compacted, 2.5Y 5/4 matrix,                                        thought to
   92-127"  7.5YR 5/6 mottles, no roots, B-2                                  -soil is                be "relic"
                                                                               saturated               and not
              -no free water (water table) to a 168" depth                      below 150",             indicative
                                                                               but no free             of present
   127-168"                                                                   water                   drainage)
                                                                                 (water                   
                                                                                 table) to               -no free
                                                                                 174"                     water (water
                                                                                                         table) to a
                                                                                                          168" depth
 
   Table 2 (cont.)
 
   Estimated                                                               Estimated                                                                Estimated
   2-3%      Pit #OW7                                                   4% Slop   Pit #OW8a                                                   4% Slop   Pit #OW8
   Slope
                                                                              0-17"
                                                                                                                                                         0-18"
   0-16"                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                             17-28"                                                                   18-36"
   16-34"                                                                           Silty clay loam (30% clay), 10YR 3/2, many fine and few medium  
                                                                                      roots, C-2                                                      
            Sandy loam (18% clay), 10YR 3/3, many fine and few medium                                                                                
            roots, B-1                                                                Silty clay loam (35% clay), 2.5YR 4/2, few fine and medium                 Silt loam (20% clay), 10YR 3/3, many fine roots, B-2
                                                                            28-94+"roots, C-2                                                        36-55"  
   34-58" Loamy coarse sand (5% clay), 10YR 3/3, few fine roots, A-2b                                                                                        Silt loam (22% clay), 10YR 3/2, common fine roots, B-2 
                                                                                     Silty loam (15% clay), very compacted lake sediments, 5Y 5/                 
            Clay loam (30% clay), 10YR 3/4, few fine roots, C-2                       4 matrix, 7.5YR 5/6 mottles appear to be "relic", unsuitable              Silt loam (25% clay), 10YR 3/3, common fine roots, B-2
                                                                                                                                                                
   58-82" Sandy clay loam (22% clay), 10YR 4/4, no roots, C-1                       -no free water (water table) to 94"                               55-168"Silt loam (20% clay), 10YR 5/4, common fine roots, B-2
                                                                                                                                                                
            Silt loam, (20% clay), 10YR 5/4, no roots, B-2                            -this pit was at the toe of an old land form and is underlain              -no free water (water table) to 168"
                                                                                     by thick, dense lake sediments                                              
   82-168"-no mottles or free water (water table to 168"                                                                                           
                                                                                     *no monitoring pipe was installed in this pit.                  
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                            
                                                                            
 
   Table 2 (cont.)
 
   Estimat   Pit #OW   Estimate   Pit #OW   Estimat   Pit #OW6
   3% Slope               7% Slope                3% Slope
                                        Silt loam
                                        (25% clay),
                                        10YR 3/3,                 Silt loam
                                        many fine                 (22% clay),
                                        and few                   10YR 3/4,
                                        medium                    many fine
                                        roots, B-2                roots, B-2
                                                                  
                                        Silty clay                Silty clay
                                        loam (35%                 loam (35%
                                        clay), 10YR               clay), 10 YR
                                        3/4, common     0-11"  5/6, common
                             0-22"   fine roots,              fine roots,
             Silty clay                C-2                      C-2
             loam (35%                                          
             clay), 10YR               Silty clay               Sandy clay
             3/4, many                 loam (35%+      11-20" loam (30%
             fine roots,     22-41"  clay), 10YR              clay), 10YR
             C-2                       5/4, common              5/4, few fine
   0-16"                           fine roots,              roots, C-1
            Silty clay                C-2                       
            loam (30%                                20-35" Loamy coarse
            clay), 2.5Y     41-65"  Loamy coarse             sand (<5%
            4/4, few                  sand (<5%                clay),
   16-34" fine roots                clay),                   variegated
            C-2                       variegated               color, no
                                     color, no       35-52" roots, A-2b
            Dense, silty              roots, A-2b               
            lake            65-72"                          Thin, weakly
   34-51" sediments                 Very fine                cemented
            with 5-10%                sandy loam               hardpan, no
            silty clay                (15% clay),     52-55" roots,
            loam in                   2.5Y 4/                  unsuitable
            fractures,      72-90"  4 matrix,                 
            few fine                  7.5YR 5/                 Silt loam
            roots, C-                 4 mottles,               (15% clay),
   51-168"2 to                      no roots,    55-120"      2.5Y 5/
            unsuitable                compacted,               4 matrix,
                                     B-2                      7.5YR 5/
            Very dense                                        4 mottles, no
            lake            90-110" Loamy coarse             roots, B-2
            sediments,                sand (<5%                 
            impermeable               clay),       120-180"     Silt loam
            layer,                    variegated               (10% clay),
             unsuitable                color, no                compacted
                            110-168"roots, A-2b              lake
             -no free                                          sediments,
             water to a                Coarse sandy             2.5Y 5/4, no
             168" depth                loam (10%                mottles, no
                                      clay), 2.5Y              roots, C-2
                                       5/4 matrix,               
                                        5YR 4/                   -no free
                                        4 mottles,               water (water
                                        no roots, B-              table) to
                                        1                         180"
                                                                  
                                        -no free                  -mottles
                                        water, but                below 55"
                                        mottled                   appear to be
                                        below 72"                 "relic"
                                        (possibly                  
                                        "relic"
                                        mottles)
                                         
 
   Table 2 (cont.)
 
   Estimated             Estimated                Estimated
   5% Slop   Pit #O   2-3%        Pit #OW   4% Slope   Pit #OW11
                            Slope
                                        Loam (25%
                                        clay), 10YR
                                        3/3, common
                                        fine and few
                                        medium
             Clay loam                  roots, B-2
             (30% clay),                 
             10YR 3/                    Clay loam                  Sandy loam
             3 many fine                (30% clay),                (18% clay),
             and few                    10YR 3/4,                  10YR 4/4,
   0-8"   medium                     few fine                   common fine
            roots, C-1     0-28"    roots, C-1                 and few
                                                    0-28"   medium
            Clay loam                 Loam (25%                 roots, B-1
            (35% clay),               clay), 10YR                
   8-24"  10YR 4/                   5/4, no                   Sandy clay
            6 many fine    28-59"   roots, B-2                loam (25%
            roots, C-2                                         clay), 10YR
                                                    28-70"  4/6, common
   24-36" Sandy loam                Silt loam                 fine and few
            (15% clay),    59-108"  (25% clay),               medium
            10YR 5/4,                 2.5Y 4/                   roots, C-1
            common fine               4 matrix,                  
            roots, B-1                10YR 5/                   Sandy loam
   36-75"                          6 mottles,      70-155" (10% clay),
            Loamy          108-115" no roots, B-              10YR 5/4, no
            coarse sand               2                         roots, B-1
            (<5% clay),                                         
            variegated                Silty clay      155-174"Silty clay
            color, no                 loam (35%                 loam (30%
            roots, lens    115-150" clay), 2.5Y               clay), 2.5Y
   75-168"of silt                   4/4 matrix,               4/4 matrix,
            loam about                10YR 5/                   7.5YR 5/
            4" thick,                 6 mottles,                6 mottles,
            A-2b                      no roots, C-              no roots, C-
                                     2                         1
            Silt loam   150-168"                                  
             (20% clay),                Silty clay                 -no free
             2.5Y 7/4,                  (40% clay),                water (water
             no roots,                  2.5Y 5/4, no               table) to
             slightly                   mottles,                   174" depth
             compacted,                 unsuitable
             B-2                         
                                        -free water
                                        (water
                                        table) at
                                        120" depth
                                         
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord. 697, 8-26-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-21A-9-13 of this Article.
8-21A-9-12: SURFACE WATER HYDROLOGY:
Hydrology Overview:   The Dry Creek surface water hydrology system is derived
from both artificial and natural sources. The artificial sources are derived
through unused irrigation waters and excess water pumped to facilitate the
needs of local livestock. The natural recharge sources include seasonal
precipitation (average is 0.24 acre-feet per acre during growing season), and
discharge of springs and seeps along Dry Creek and its tributaries.
Source fluctuations, especially seasonally, have had an effect on the spatial
variation in local hydraulic conditions along the major drainage and have an
important role in determining the controlling processes involved with local
flood processes, resulting flood features, and subsequent erosional attributes.
In addition, ancestral hydraulic processes have contributed to a diverse
depositional morphology, especially along Dry Creek.
The principal hydrologic feature in the study area is the Dry Creek drainage
basin. The basin drains approximately sixty (60) square miles of intermountain
uplands. Gauging station records from 1953 through 1968 show peak discharges
range from three thousand five hundred (3,500) to four thousand seven hundred
(4,700) acre- feet of water for the basin that includes the Hidden Springs
project area. The peak flows appear to be concentrated from February through
April. The exception is occasionally January shows moderately high flows.
Floodways:   Encroachment on the established floodplain, such as structures and
fills, increases the concern of the effects from localized flooding. One aspect
of floodplain management involves balancing the economic gain from floodplain
development against the resulting increase of flood constraints. Floodway
identification is a useful tool to assist local community development in proper
floodway management as it relates to land use planning. The floodway delineated
in this study was computed from Currant Creek east along Dry Creek using
Federal Emergency Management Agency/U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, hydrologic
engineering analyst protocol. Peak flood discharges were determined for the 10,
50, and 100-year events for the Dry Creek drainage. Discharge rates and flow
frequency information was obtained from gauging stations located approximately
two (2.0) miles west of the study area. The results of the review show the 10,
and 50-year flood events will probably be contained in the present Dry Creek
channel. The 100-year event will probably overtop the present creek channel up
to an average of approximately three hundred feet (300') lateral distance from
the creek centroid. The accompanying map shows the flood plain boundary for the
10, 50, and 100-year flood events. The boundary locations are an integral part
of effective long-term land use planning.
Natural Springs:   The diverse depositional environment associated with Dry
Creek has contributed to unique conditions that promote artesian flow at a
number of locations along Dry Creek within the Hidden Springs property
boundary. Approximately nine (9) natural springs are clustered near the
southeast corner of section 31, the northwest corner of section 5 and the
southwest corner of section 32, Township 5 North, Range 2 East.
Some diversion of spring flow has been attempted during the past for
agricultural purposes, however, for the most part the springs have remained
undeveloped. Flow of the springs is often intermittent, and depends largely on
seasonal precipitation and local water recharge. The most likely explanation
for the springs and their historic characteristic is that they are fed by
recharge from precipitation, upstream irrigation and snowmelt from mountainous
runoff generally from slopes to the north. Ancient streambeds (visible on
current aerial photographs) probably transport the water from upstream surface
and subsurface sources. The identification of shallow ground water areas is
paramount in effective land use planning, especially during foundation
engineering for residential development. The areas that have natural springs
present are identified on the accompanying map. Some portions of these springs
and the Dry Creek riparian area are wetlands areas.
Surface Water Recharge:   Every year some sections of Dry Creek do in fact dry
up. Various upstream reaches dry up while other reaches (benefiting from
upstream recharge through shallow ground water) continue to flow. These
historic characteristics provide a glimpse of the relative complexity and
interrelationship between surface water and ground water. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-13: GROUND WATER:
   Ground water in the Hidden Springs area is found in permeable sedimentary
aquifers and in fractured rock aquifers. The fractured rock aquifers appear to
be limited to the slopes on the north side of Dry Creek. Depth to ground water
varies, and ranges from a few feet below ground surface along Dry Creek, to
more than one hundred feet (100') below ground surface in upland locations.
Tables 2 and 3 provide actual soils logs and ground water depth data for a
portion of the valley floor in Hidden Springs.
Hydrogeology:   The Hidden Springs area geology is described in detail in a
previous report as part of this Section. Ground water characteristics of the
local hydrogeologic units are discussed below.
   •Alluvium. Recent alluvium in the Dry Creek valley consists of
unconsolidated sand, gravel, and silt that has been eroded from nearby uplands
and deposited by Dry Creek and tributary streams. Thickness of the alluvium is
generally less than fifty feet (50'). Ground water from the alluvium has been
tapped by shallow wells for irrigation and domestic use.
   •Terteling Springs Formation. The Terteling Springs formation is composed of
a layered sequence of lake bed sediments - primarily sand, sandstone, silt,
clay, and mudstone. Saturated sand and sandstone layers within the Terteling
Springs formation act as productive aquifers. Domestic and irrigation wells
within the project area vicinity tap aquifers within the Terteling Springs
formation. Clay, silt, and mudstone layers act as aquitards, restricting the
movement of ground water. Clay, silt, and mudstone sediments are believed to be
the predominant saturated sediments south of Dry Creek.
•Volcanic Rocks. Volcanic rocks within the project area consist primarily of
basalt flows. Most of these volcanics have relatively low permeability    and
are not considered to be significant aquifers, although some ground water
production has been reported from basalt aquifers in areas of the foothills.
   •Granite. Cretaceous-age granitic rocks of the Idaho Batholith are exposed
within the Currant Creek drainage, east of Cartwright Road. These rocks
generally have very low porosity and permeability and do not serve as
productive aquifers.
Geothermal:   Low temperature geothermal wells (85-110°F) have been drilled in
the Dry Creek area, both east and west of the Hidden Springs project area.
These wells tap aquifers found at depths of less than one thousand feet
(1,000'). Warm ground water (>85°F) is likely to be found below about five
hundred feet (500') beneath the Dry Creek Valley.
Ground waters with temperatures in excess of eighty five degrees Fahrenheit
(85°F) (i.e., low- temperature geothermal waters) are generally restricted from
development for municipal and irrigation uses by the 1982 Idaho Geothermal
Resources Act. In addition, water temperatures in excess of eighty five degrees
Fahrenheit (85°F) are not desirable for domestic use due to aesthetics,
chemical composition and increased potential for bacterial contamination. As a
result, warm ground waters are probably not available nor desirable for Hidden
Springs water supply development.
Ground Water Flow:   Within the project area, shallow ground water flow likely
follows topography, with Dry Creek acting as the drain for ground water from
upland areas. The depth to ground water data and soils logs presented in Tables
2 and 3 confirm the notion that Dry Creek acts as a drain for upstream events.
Clearly the shallow ground water flow direction has component vectors both down
the valley parallel to Dry Creek and perpendicular toward Dry Creek. It is not
clear if deep ground water flow is parallel to Dry Creek, or south toward the
Boise River. Local ground water flow in the Hidden Springs area is probably
influenced by geologic units and structure, with preferential movement through
higher permeability materials in old streambeds and along fault-related
fracture paths.
Groundwater Recharge And Discharge:   Recharge of the local ground water system
is derived primarily from leakage of Dry Creek and its tributary streams and
from direct infiltration of precipitation. Additional recharge is derived from
infiltration of flood irrigation water diverted from Dry Creek. Total annual
ground water recharge has not been determined for the project area, but may be
substantial during those months when Dry Creek is carrying snowmelt.
Ground water discharge currently occurs at domestic and irrigation wells, at
springs, and through streambeds within the gaining reaches of Dry Creek and
Currant Creek.
Surface water and ground water are generally in direct hydraulic connection in
the vicinity of springs and in the gaining reaches of Dry Creek and tributary
streams. During periods without direct runoff of precipitation or snowmelt, the
flowing reaches of Dry Creek are probably a reflection of the local water
table. Many of these reaches dry up during the summertime, suggesting a
seasonal lowering of the local water table at that time.
Aquifer Hydraulics:   Deep aquifer hydraulics within the study area are not
known, and will need to be determined as part of a future test well program.
Aquifer hydraulics in the lower Dry Creek area, west of the Hidden Springs
project, were calculated following a 30-day pumping test of a well located
approximately two (2) miles southwest of the junction of Highway 55 and Dry
Creek Road (Feast, 1991 and Baker, 1991). This well was pumped at an average
rate of 743 gallons per minute. Draw down in the pumping well was 81 feet after
30 days of pumping. Draw down in observation wells ranged from 3.8 feet at a
well 800 feet from the pumping well to 1.0 feet at wells 2,300 and 3,600 feet
from the pumping well. Based upon the response of the observation wells,
aquifer transmissivities in the range of 33,000 to 92,000 ft2/day were
calculated. The calculated storage coefficient ranged from 0.0006 to 0.08,
indicating semi- confined conditions. Given the distance and changes in
geologic conditions, the aquifer hydraulic characteristics in the Hidden
Springs project area cannot be directly inferred from the characteristics in
the Lower Dry Creek area.
Ground Water Quality:   Analyses of water samples from wells in the vicinity of
the project area are reported by Parliman (1983) and Baker (1991). These
analyses include data for both warm water and cold water aquifers in the Dry
Creek Valley. Based on these data, ground water from deep cold water aquifers
in the Hidden Springs project area is anticipated to be good quality for
domestic use, with moderate levels of hardness and no water quality parameters
in excess of EPA maximum contaminant levels (MCLs). Geothermal aquifers are
also anticipated to be of good quality, with the exception of fluoride
concentrations which may exceed EPA MCLs.
The shallow alluvial aquifer is often in direct hydraulic connection with the
surface water flow of Dry Creek and as a result is not sufficiently protected
from surface contaminants for domestic consumption. For that reason, the
shallow alluvial aquifer is not as desirable for domestic use as deeper, more
protected aquifers of the Terteling Springs Formation. Well logs suggest that
clay layers should provide protection from surface and surficial activity for
wells tapping aquifers below one hundred feet (100').
Existing Ground Water
Development:   Existing wells within the project area produce ground water
primarily for domestic and stock water uses, with some minor irrigation uses.
Wells outside of the project area produce water for agricultural irrigation and
space heating, in addition to domestic and stock water.
Reported well yields in the Dry Creek Valley range from over two thousand
(2,000) gallons per minute (gpm) to less than five (5) gpm. In general, the
higher yield wells are located in the valley floor, west of the project site.
The higher yield wells tap sand aquifers within the Terteling Springs Formation
and the lower part of the recent alluvium. The low yield wells are typically
located in either the granite foothills north and northeast of the site or in
the thick blue clay sediments south of the site.
Documented Water Level Declines:   There are no long-term ground water
hydrographs for wells within the project area. The closest long-term hydrograph
is for well 05N-01E-34DBB1, located in the Dry Creek Valley approximately three
(3) miles west of the project. This hydrograph has a period of record of nearly
thirty (30) years. Baker (1991) evaluated the hydrograph of this well and found
no significant decline in recent years.
   Table 3
   Groundwater Depth Observations
Observation 5-  5-  7-2- 8-  9-  11- 1-  3-9- 3-15- 4-7- 6-21- 6-23- 7-16- 9-4-
Well Or     12- 28- 95   17- 23- 26- 22- 96   96    96   96    96    96    96
Test Pit    95  95       95  95  95  96
Observation 5-   5-   7-  8-   9-   11-  1-  3-9- 3-   4-7- 6-  6-   7-
Well Or     12-  28-  2-  17-  23-  26-  22- 96   15-  96   21- 23-  16- 9-4-96
Test Pit    95   95   95  95   95   95   96       96        96  96   96
OW1-168     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (167")
OW2-174     Damp Damp Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Damp –  Damp – Damp – Dry (172")
OW3-168     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (170")
OW4-168     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (162")
OW5-168     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (153")
OW6-180     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (178")
OW7-168     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (166")
OW8a-94     Dry  No Pipe
OW8-169     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (172")
OW9-168     Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  –  Dry  – Dry  – Dry (150")
OW10-168    120  146  141 Damp Damp Damp Dry Damp –  114  – 114  – 129" (Bot-168
                                                                         Dry)
                                                                         Dry
OW11-174    Dry  Dry  Dry Dry  Dry  Dry  – –  –  –  – –  – (171")TP1204
                                                                         0–––72"
TP2                                       21   26   30  38   – 42"
TP3                                       2    16   18  22   – 17"
TP4                                       16   28   26  32   – 32"
TP5                                       45   52   57  52   – 60"
TP6                                       62   70   60  70   – 77"
TP7                                       58   72   62  74   – 82"
TP8                                       16   23   – –  – 33"
TP9                                       15   23   – –  – 53"
TP10                                      29   32   – –  – (75") Damp
TP11                                      >144 >96  – –  – 59"
TP12                                      >180 –  – –  – –
TP13                                      >96  –  – –  – –
TP14                                      94   76   – –  – 77"
TP15                                      –  –  – –  – 33"
TP16                                      31   42   – –  – 45"OW20688 9"
OW21                                                     61  57"
OW22                                                     50  77"
OW23                                                     49  72"
OW24                                                     60  76"
OW25                                                     110 111"
OW26                                                     56  99"
OW27                                                     48  (55") Dry
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_link_to_map_Hydrology/Drainage/Groundwater_here
   Fig. 2-G
8-21A-9-14: GEOTECHNICAL CHARACTERIZATION:
   Development of the geotechnical constraints characterization was designed to
help recognize factors inherent to natural features which would potentially
affect project planning, development and construction. The Boise foothills are
prone to some geotechnical constraints which are characterized by slope
failure, over-steepened slopes, excess hillside erosion and uncontrolled
flooding.
Slope stability and expansive soils associated with the Boise foothill's
volcanic assemblage as a geologic unit is known for its potential for both
shallow (translational) and deep-seated (rotational) slope failures. The lower
stratigraphic sequence of the volcanic assemblage is characteristic of low
shear strength, especially along interface clay layers within the lower
Terteling Springs Formation. The expansive (swelling) soils are readily
recognized by the chocolate brown color and mud-cracked surface, and occurrence
of these soils is confined to the outcrop area of the volcanic assemblage. It
is believed clayey soils in these areas may have excessive low shear strength
when saturated. In addition, the clays tend to have poor drainage, and some are
moderately expansive.
Objective:   The purpose of this analysis is to identify geotechnical-related
constraints associated with the Hidden Springs area and compile the constraint
information into a useful nontechnical map form for use by planners to guide
future development. The data and maps generated by this study will aid in the
formation of planning and development guidelines and construction standards
that will:
1.Minimize the detrimental effect of natural constraints to the health, safety,
and general welfare of the Hidden Springs project in individual site
acquisition and/or development of real property; and
2.Encourage the most beneficial use of selected development areas and
productive development of sites within each area.
Geotechnical
Constraint/Slope Maps:   The geotechnical hazards map is a compilation and
analysis of all available data that may identify potential natural constraints.
As such, the natural constraints that have been identified are minor.
The slope map and description included in this Section illustrates and
describes areas categorized by the following slopes:
      0-5 percent
      6-10 percent
      11-15 percent
      16-20 percent
      21-25 percent
      over 25 percent
Geotechnical Constraints Classification: The following constraint categories
have been developed as a general guideline for general planning and development
at Hidden Springs.
High Constraints
Development of these areas will require more detailed study. Characteristic of
severe slope failure, high ground water, over-steepened slopes, and rock
topple.
Due to the fact that the basis for this classification is generalized and from
secondary sources, the development and platting process as described in Section
4 will require more detailed planning at a site specific level. At that time,
specific building envelopes and lotting criteria will be established to avoid
or mitigate identified hazards.
Moderate Constraints
These areas can be developed with some limitations and/or restrictions. These
areas may include ancestral slope failure, steep slopes, some swelling or fat
clays. The restrictions placed due to the potential hazards are usually not
serious enough to prevent development.
Low Constraints
These areas can be developed. Little or no development restrictions are
associated with these areas. These areas are located primarily south of Dry
Creek and Currant Creek. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_to_map_entitled_"Geotechnical_hazards"
   Fig. 2-H
8-21A-9-15: VEGETATION:
General Vegetation:   The Hidden Springs site is composed of three (3) general
vegetative zones:
   •The moderate to steep slopes, ridges and gulches that are covered with
sagebrush grass vegetation;
   •The Dry Creek Valley bottomland, which has been converted to agricultural
uses; and
   •The narrow riparian zones along Currant Creek, McFarland Creek and Dry
Creek.
The narrow riparian zones are fairly lush and dominated by large woody species
including birch, various willows and red osier dogwood. Hackberry and
chokecherry occur in the lower to midslope positions. Forbs include those that
are commonly associated with the foothills environment. These are miner's
lettuce, cleavers, Clematis ligusticifolia, and poa species, sticky geranium,
stinging nettle, water pimpernel, cinquefoil and horsetail as well as sedges,
grasses, bulrush and alfalfa.
Rare Plants:   Rare plants studies were conducted in 1994 and 1999 as part of
the site analysis and a report is included in the appendix to this community
plan submittal. The reports discuss the isolated populations of Aase's onion
that occur in two (2) areas on the upper, south facing slopes north of Dry
Creek and at the southern portion of the property above Seaman's Gulch Road. In
addition, the 1999 study revealed additional populations of Aase's onion and
Wilcox's primrose on or immediately adjacent to the one hundred twenty (120)
acre annexation area located at the southern portion of the site, which has
been reduced to ninety seven (97) acres due to the transfer of twenty three
(23) acres to the Cartwright Ranch planned community in 2007. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord. 697, 8-26-2008)
   PDF_link_to_map_entitled_"Vegetation"
   Fig. 2-I
8-21A-9-16: WILDLIFE RESOURCES:
   Wildlife resources exist on or near the project site. Sitings indicate
populations of big game on the property are relatively limited compared to the
rest of the foothills area, but small game is abundant. A general overview of
these resources follows.
Big Game:   A resident herd of mule deer, approximately six to ten (6-10)
animals, utilizes the property, most often seen on the slopes north of Dry
Creek Road and the agricultural bottoms along the Dry Creek Valley. The
property also serves as winter range for another twenty to thirty (20-30) deer,
depending on the severity of the winter. More important winter range exists to
the east between Rocky Canyon Road and Highway 21, where hundreds of deer are
spread out along the foothills in a normal winter. With extreme weather
conditions, more animals likely would be pushed down toward the valley bottom
from the Boise Ridge and onto the Hidden Springs property. Recent (1986) range
fires on the Hidden Springs property have reduced the amount of winter forage
for big game by removing valuable shrub species, especially bitterbrush. The
1996 range fire affected only the area south of Dry Creek which has little
winter habitat area. Much of the range north of Currant Creek has been taken
over by three- awn grass, which has very little forage value for any wildlife
species because of its high silica content. The potential exists, however, to
rehabilitate the area by plantings of more preferred species of grasses, forbs
and shrubs.
Some elk may winter on the upper portions of the property, especially during
severe winters. They too could benefit from range rehabilitation efforts. A few
pronghorn antelope, approximately six to eight (6-8) animals, exist in the
area. They have favored the agricultural land in the valley bottom, but
occasionally venture onto the sagebrush hills.
Upland Game:   Upland game including quail, pheasants, mourning doves, chukars
and gray (Hungarian) partridge are found in various habitat types on the
property. Pheasants are most common nearest the agricultural land, while quail,
chukars and partridge are more common in the grassland and sagebrush types.
Water sources on the property, including the creeks, seeps and springs, are
important to these upland game species, as well as other nongame wildlife.
Nongame:   Raptors, such as red-tailed hawks, ferruginous hawks, Swainson's
hawks, northern harriers, and kestrels, hunt over the property, and nest along
Dry, Currant and McFarland Creeks. Several owl species also nest and hunt in
the area. Great horned owls are known to nest in McFarland Creek. Prairie
falcons are known to nest farther to the east, off the property, but may hunt
on the sagebrush/grass slopes and riparian areas on the property. Fox, coyote
and other various small mammals are found throughout the property, as are many
species of birds that both nest and migrate through the area. Various reptiles
and amphibians are found from the valley bottoms to the grassland and shrub
slopes. The amphibians would be most closely associated with the riparian
areas, seeps and springs, whereas the reptiles would generally be found in the
drier, rockier areas. These species, along with the small mammals, are an
important food source for the raptors and mammalian predators.
The most valuable habitat type in terms of numbers of different wildlife
species are the riparian areas along Dry Creek, Currant Creek, and McFarland
Creek, and in the small seeps and springs. Not only is the water source
important, but the greater variety of plant species occurring in these areas
means a greater variety of wildlife species. Many species rely on the abundance
of shrubs and trees in riparian areas for escape cover, nesting, and food.
Riparian areas also serve as important migration and travel corridors because
of the cover they provide.
Threatened/Endangered
Candidate Species:   The U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (FWS) has identified a
list of endangered, threatened, and candidate species which may occur on the
project site. Candidate species have no protection under the Endangered Species
Act, but are included for early planning consideration. Candidate species could
be proposed or listed during the project planning period, and would then be
covered under the Act.
The gray wolf and peregrine falcon are the only officially endangered or
threatened species included on the FWS list. The gray wolf was included based
on "probable sightings in 1978 and 1981 within 10 km" of the property. Because
of the rarity of wolves in Idaho, and especially southern Idaho, it is highly
unlikely that a wolf would ever be found on the property. The peregrine falcon
was included because of the proximity to the Boise urban hack site, and it is
conceivable that the peregrines may fly over the property occasionally.
The pygmy rabbit, a C2 candidate species, was included as a "possible"
occurrence on the property. Since there is little data on the distribution of
the pygmy rabbit, it is not conclusive whether it is a resident species. A C2
species is one for which information indicates that a listing proposal may be
appropriate, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and
threat are not currently available. Priority for listing is lower for C2
species than for C1 species.
Given the above conditions it is not likely that there are threatened or
endangered species on the Hidden Springs property.
Sensitive Species:   The State of Idaho also has a separate list of "Species of
Special Concern". Species occurring in the Boise foothills, and which might be
found on the subject property at some time during the year, and their primary
habitats, include:
Mammals
*   California Myotis - Sagebrush; feeds along riparian and water, roosts in
mines, caves, and rock crevices.
*   Fringed Myotis - Dry pine forests; roosts in buildings.
*   Western Big-Eared Bat - Sagebrush, riparian, open pine forests, mountain
shrub; roosts in mines, rock outcroppings, caves, dark buildings.
*   Western Pipistrelle - Cliffs near water; roosts in rocks.
Birds
*   Long-Billed Curlew - Open grasslands, marshes.
*   Ferruginous Hawk - Open sagebrush, grassland, cultivated areas, riparian.
*   Swainson's Hawk - Open sagebrush, grassland, cultivated areas.
*   Merlin - Urban areas, riparian.
*   Goshawk - Winters in valley bottoms in riparian zones.
*   Mountain Quail - Riparian areas, dense shrubs.
*   Flammulated Owl - Conifer woodlands, riparian.
*   Northern Pygmy Owl - Dense riparian, mature forest, sometimes in open
meadows, swamps, and cultivated areas.
Reptiles And Amphibians
*   Western Ground Snake - Sagebrush.
*   Ringneck Snake - Woodlands, grasslands, shrubby areas, rocky canyons.
Since these species are either rare or uncommon, it is difficult to estimate
the importance of the subject property to their distribution. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997)
8-21A-9-17: CULTURAL RESOURCES:
   Introduction: As part of the planning and permitting process, an
archaeological sensitivity assessment of the Hidden Springs area was conducted.
The purpose of the study was to determine areas likely to contain
archaeological remains which would be affected by the construction and
occupancy of the residential development. An examination of site forms,
historic maps, and survey reports resulted in the identification of cultural
resources within the project area and the delineation of areas of moderate,
moderate to low and low sensitivity for archaeological remains. In general, the
project area is expected to have a moderate to low sensitivity for sites based
on topographic features, principally steep slopes and distance to water.
Identified Resources In
The Project Area:   An architectural reconnaissance of the Boise foothills was
performed as part of a regional irrigation study (Davis 1990). Three (3)
structures in the Dry Creek Valley were recorded as part of that study. These
structures include a wood frame hay shed (015216), a wood clapboard house with
masonry foundation (015217), and an irrigation headgate structure located on a
private ditch (015942). All three (3) structures occur in the Dry Creek flood
plain on the Hidden Springs property. Overall, the quantity and nature of the
structures suggests that this area received limited historic use associated
with farming and livestock.
No prehistoric archaeological resources have been recorded within the Hidden
Springs property boundary. A total of six (6) prehistoric and historic sites
have been recorded within two (2) miles of the project area. All of these
sites, consisting of prehistoric lithic scatters and historic foundations, are
located on moderate slopes adjacent to Dry Creek in a portion of the creek with
a very narrow flood plain.
Sensitivity Assessment:   One of the primary goals of the Hidden Springs
project is to be sensitive to any archaeological resources in the project area.
A sensitivity assessment has been conducted focused on the relative potential
for the various portions of the project area to contain significant prehistoric
or historic archaeological resources. Trends were derived from examining the
nature and patterning of known sites within the region, the results of surveys
in similar environmental locations including surveys with an absence of
cultural resources, and the physiographic and environmental characteristics of
the project area. Using these data, the project area was divided into several
parts equating to different degrees of archaeological sensitivity. Based on
their differences, three (3) classes of sensitivity were defined: moderate,
moderate to low, and low.
The Cultural Resources map depicts the range of archaeological sensitivity of
the project area. The discussion below outlines the attributes of each of the
sensitivity classes.
Moderate Sensitivity: The areas considered to possess moderate sensitivity
include the Dry Creek flood plain (M1) and the gentle to modest slopes in the
southeastern portion of the study area (M2). Both of these areas have flat to
gently sloping topography and proximity to an intermittent stream. The flood
plain is covered in recent alluvium and sites within the area are likely to be
buried. However, conversations with a local farmer (personal communications, A.
Ostalasa) indicate that no cultural materials have been found in this portion
of the flood plain, although such materials have been recovered upstream from
the project area. The Hidden Springs property has been cultivated heavily since
the 1800s. Sites that could be found in these areas include seasonal plant
collecting and hunting sites and historic sites associated with agriculture and
grazing.
Moderate To Low Sensitivity: The areas considered to possess moderate to low
sensitivity include the steep slopes adjacent to the Dry Creek flood plain and
the mouths of the drainages issuing from the hills into the flood plain. The
steep slopes contain some rock outcrops that could have been used as temporary
shelters or storage areas. Representing a transitional area between the flood
plain and the foothills, this sector is likely to contain a higher density of
sites than the foothills, but a lower density than the flood plain. The mouths
of the drainages would likely have received prehistoric use for hunting and
some plant collecting associated with riparian habitats. These drainages also
represent the access corridors to the foothills.
Low Sensitivity: This is the largest portion of the project area, accounting
for approximately two- thirds (2/3) of the entire area. It contains moderate to
steep slopes and ridge tops approximately one-half (1/2) to one and one-half
(11/2) miles from Dry Creek with narrow intermittent drainages. It corresponds
to the low sensitivity zones within the foothills of both the Northeast Boise
Foothills project and the Hulls Grove project. In other areas, this zone
exhibits low site density. Where sites occur, they tend to be historic and
associated with mining, grazing, or other temporary activities. Prehistoric
sites may include very short term hunting sites and may be represented by
isolated artifacts. Sites in this zone are most likely to occur on ridge tops
and moderate slopes near the intermittent streams. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_link_to_map_entitled_"cultural_resources"
   Fig. 2-J
8-21A-9-18: LAND USE PATTERNS:
   Existing land use patterns on-site and within one mile of the Hidden Springs
property are consistent with the rural residential and agricultural land uses
surrounding the Boise metropolitan area. Specific uses include dry land
grazing, both irrigated and nonirrigated agriculture, rural residential
(homesites on parcels from 1 to 25 acres), undeveloped rural land and a
landfill parcel that is owned by Ada County. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_link_to_map_entitled_"land_use_patterns"
   Fig. 2-K
8-21A-9-19: SITE ANALYSIS: SUMMARY OF OPPORTUNITIES AND CONSTRAINTS:
   The analysis of site opportunities and constraints is derived from
information presented in the pre-development conditions section of this Plan
and summarized in the Site Analysis: Opportunities and Constraints map. As
such, the site analysis is a composite overlay of the Geographic Information
Systems (GIS) resource maps, background reports and field review by the
development and planning team. The following outline highlights the natural and
cultural factors which either singularly or in combination have presented
assets or limitations in the proposed development of Hidden Springs.
Opportunities:   Varied Topography: Slopes and landforms that range from
shallow, open areas in the Dry Creek Valley floor to the gentle side slopes of
the adjacent ridges, into the moderate or steeper slopes of the foothills and
gulches provide a great diversity to the Hidden Springs property. These
conditions afford the opportunity to sensitively incorporate development into
the topography, integrating buildings, roads and infrastructure to minimize
visual impacts and disturbance on the property.
Valley And Hillside Views: The views from the hillsides into the Dry Creek
Valley and beyond are dramatic. From the upper slopes at the north side of the
property, the views range up to one hundred eighty degrees (180°) toward the
Treasure Valley and the Owyhee Mountains. At the south side of the property,
the view across Dry Creek Valley features the backdrop of the foothills that
immediately rise up to the high ridges, front range and mountains above this
valley.
Creeks: The three (3) creeks - Dry Creek, Currant Creek and McFarland Creek -
that run through the Hidden Springs property offer a number of opportunities
related to wildlife habitat, trail/greenway corridors and visual amenities.
Access: The close proximity and routing of primary roads to the property from
the south and west via State Street, Highway 55, Seaman's Gulch Road, as well
as Dry Creek Road from the east offer various routes for convenient vehicular
access and traffic distribution.
Ground Water: A ground water resource in the Hidden Springs project vicinity is
found in permeable sedimentary aquifers, with reported well yields of up to two
thousand (2,000) gallons per minute in the Dry Creek Valley west of the project
area. The ground water from cold water aquifers in the Hidden Springs project
area is anticipated to be good quality for domestic use, with moderate levels
of hardness and no water quality parameters in excess of EPA maximum
contaminant levels (MCLs).
Constraints:   Steep Slopes: A number of areas throughout the northern and
southern portions of the site are constrained by slopes that are in excess of
twenty five percent (25%). These slopes are primarily along the sides of the
ridgelines that project into the Dry Creek Valley, some of the broad, open
slopes at the northern portion of the property and the backslope that extends
into McFarland Creek.
Visually Sensitive Hillsides: Due to the amount and exposure of slope area,
including ridgelines, sideslopes and exposed hillside areas within the
property, there is a significant amount of visually sensitive land.
Power Line: The power line that runs diagonally across the upper end of the
northern portion of the site includes a significant easement and setback area
that impacts views, reduces access and restricts land use along this corridor.
Flood Plain: The Dry Creek flood plain and floodway present a constraint
related to buildable area and access within the valley floor.
Land With Limited Access: Certain portions of the Hidden Springs property are
difficult to access due to steep slopes, ridgelines, stream corridors, lack of
easements or adjacent property configurations and geological hazard areas.
Surface Water And Wetlands: Established drainages and springs including Dry
Creek, Currant Creek and McFarland Creek should be isolated from all
unnecessary construction activity. Road and utility crossings should be planned
carefully with appropriate restoration. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_link_to_"Site_Analysis:_Opportunities_and_Constraints"
   Fig. 2-M
8-21A-9-20: CENTRAL PLANNING CONCEPTS:
         Plans for Hidden Springs have been under preparation for several
years. The plans presented in this document are the result of an extensive
period of regional and site based analysis, a careful consideration of program
and design alternatives and the study of other major projects in the country
that are known for environmental quality and traditional community values. The
plans were refined to reflect the suggestions of numerous public agencies and
interest groups (including many neighboring property owners) who are concerned
with land use and development in the Dry Creek Valley.
The resulting development strategy seeks to set a distinctive precedent for
development in the Dry Creek Valley by establishing a small rural town and
agricultural valley floor as the defining identity and amenity for an
environmentally sensitive and visually dramatic planned community. The central
planning concepts which make up this plan include:
   Integrated Community: Hidden Springs will use innovative infrastructure
technologies, resource management techniques and financial investment
strategies to create a planned community which integrates the unique qualities
of its site with responsible development and operations.
   •Site disturbance will be minimized through the use of rural roadway
designs, shared driveways, building envelope controls on rural residential
lots, and a compact and efficient village center core.
   •Water will primarily come from United Water Company and be distributed to a
reservoir and a comprehensive distribution system. Lots greater than 2.5 acres
in size will be served by individual wells.
   •Sewage will be handled primarily through an aerated lagoon biological
treatment system. Lots greater than 2.5 acres in size may employ individual
septic treatment systems.
   •The sewage treatment system will be managed by a qualified professional
entity acceptable to the department of environmental quality and Central health
district.
   •Stormwater will be captured, dispersed and treated in a series of grassy
swales and retention areas that will naturally filter pollutants and recharge
the aquifer.
   •On site commercial and community/recreation facilities will help to capture
traffic and minimize the number of trips off site. Park and ride lots and
vanpools will help residents get to work without using their automobiles.
   •A wildfire prevention and management strategy, developed in coordination
with North Ada fire and rescue and BLM will be implemented. Elements include
use of noncombustible building materials, fire resistant vegetation, sufficient
water supply and pressure, and access to permittee's areas.
   •Advanced telecommunication connections to every home will enable residents
who choose to work at home to communicate with their employers, schools,
libraries and other information services without leaving the community.
   •Extensive trails and bicycle facilities will encourage residents to walk
and recreate within the community as well as have access to larger regional
systems.
   •An active community association will be established to ensure long term
maintenance and operations are of the quality of initial improvements.
   •The Hidden Springs boundary configuration together with the design and
provision of essential public services enhances the ability of Hidden Springs
to potentially be annexed or incorporated.
Maintaining Rural Character: Hidden Springs will maintain the existing rural
character of Dry Creek Valley by conserving the agricultural scale and
character of uses in the most visible portions of the site and concentrating
higher density residential in the village center or more hidden side coves and
valleys. The central portion of the valley floor will remain in agriculture
under common control. The large south facing slope below the power line will be
maintained as a wildlife management area and be enhanced with native
vegetation. Above the power line, farm/ranch lots will serve as a buffer to
this wildlife management area. The farm/ranch and rural lots will all have
designated building envelopes which will allow the majority of the site area of
these lots to remain in undisturbed native vegetation and open space. These
designated building envelopes create a very low density of isolated homesites
which encourages the use of shared driveways, individual wells and on site
septic to minimize the impact of access and development of the homesites. The
roadways outside the village center will be maintained as rural cross sections
with natural shoulders and grassy swales, rather than urban curb and gutters.
Project features such as the general store, community center and residential
neighborhood entries will be designed consistent with the site's character.
Minimizing Visual Impact: Where development is proposed, buildings, utilities
and roads will be carefully sited and screened to minimize their visual impact
from both on site and off site adjoining properties. Techniques used to
minimize visual impact include:
   •Minimizing development in the highly visible valley floor and concentrating
development in the more hidden side coves, gulches, and valleys.
   •Minimizing development of the highly visible hillsides and keeping
development either at the base or top of slopes.
   •Siting ridgetop units in saddles and low areas to minimize "skylining" when
development occurs at the top of slopes.
   •Tucking buildings into topographic folds.
   •Orienting roadway views to open space, agricultural parcels and the creek
beds.
   •Offsetting building pads to permit views between homes to open space,
agricultural fields and the creeks.
   •Using native vegetation in natural massings to blend homes with hillsides.
   •Limiting heights, breaking up building massing and facades to minimize the
visual scale of structures.
Conserving Natural Systems: Hidden Springs has been carefully planned to
minimize impact on the natural systems in Dry Creek Valley and in some cases to
enhance or improve natural systems which have been stressed by the existing
ranch and grazing operations. Riparian areas will be maintained in their
existing configuration or be enhanced.
Greenbelt or open space buffers have been designated between all riparian areas
and nearby development. Wildlife corridors and big game winter range management
areas have been designated with plans for enhancing these areas with vegetation
to improve their ability to support big game winter feeding.
Greenbelt, regional and local trails have been designed to allow both wildlife
and humans to move unobstructed throughout Hidden Springs and connect to
corridors on adjoining lands. Approximately fifty percent (50%) of Hidden
Springs will remain as open space. Existing vegetation will be maintained
through the enforcement of building envelopes and related design guidelines on
the rural residential lots. Natural drainageways will be protected through
similar design guidelines regulating the grading and drainage of building
parcels.
Protecting Water Quality: Water quality is integral to several planning
concepts including transportation, water, sewer and facilities management.
Drainage from the road system will be contained and filtered through grass
swales and natural soils where terrain allows. The water system will be metered
and managed. Existing irrigation water rights will be used to continue farming
activities and irrigate common areas. Irrigation losses will be minimized
through a program of limited and controlled landscaping and planting.
Wastewater will be treated primarily through a pressurized subsurface treatment
system. All the water quality management features will be designed in
accordance with regulatory standards and sited with soils and geology suited to
that purpose. The existing springs on the south side of Dry Creek will be
integrated into the overall site plan's common areas and agricultural areas.
All of these systems will all be integrated into the overall management
structure for the area.
These concepts, properly designed, constructed, maintained and managed, will
offer a rare opportunity to have development without sacrificing water quality.
Developing A Distinctive Community: Hidden Springs has also been conceived with
the intent of establishing an environment that fosters a high quality of
development and strong community interaction amongst its residents. The village
center will emulate the small town character which makes so many of Idaho's
rural towns unique. The community will offer homesites with a broad range of
size configurations and features. Hidden Springs will encourage a diversity of
residents bound together with a common pride and identity in their community.
While distinctive in their design and product type, residential neighborhoods
will be linked by pathways and trails to the village center allowing the
community center and general store to act as community wide gathering places.
Recreational facilities such as playing fields, playgrounds, tot lots, trails
and other open space features will provide numerous opportunities for residents
to interact. Hidden Springs will also sponsor numerous community activities
including farmers' markets, community gatherings, family oriented holiday
events and educational sessions to encourage residents to explore the natural
environment, meet their neighbors and share in community activities. The
schools, general store and produce stand will also meet important community
needs, reduce travel requirements and will provide the community with
opportunities for residents to interact with their neighbors. Hidden Springs
will provide Ada County and the Boise area with a model planned community that
captures the rural character and traditional town values that have historically
made Idaho's communities ideal environments to live in and raise a family.
Flexibility: The master land use plan, development standards and design
guidelines contained herein are intended to depict the general nature and
relative intensity of residential and nonresidential development at Hidden
Springs, while allowing sufficient flexibility to permit detailed planning and
design as development progresses through market cycles. The configuration of
development parcels and phases may be altered from those shown on the master
land use plan to accommodate detailed site conditions and revisions to the
project's implementation strategy - providing that the reconfiguration does not
conflict with the general intent or specific conditions described in this
specific plan.
Specific conditions:
   1.Residential density may be transferred among development parcels providing
this transfer does not conflict with the general intent or conditions provided
in section
8-21A-4 of this article, nor exceed the total project unit count of one
thousand thirty five (1,035) units. Density transfers will be reflected in
plats submitted for each phase.
   2.A mix of residential uses is permitted in all development parcels.
   3.Total commercial uses shall not exceed fifty thousand (50,000) gross
square feet (GSF) of interior building area of village commercial uses and
fifty thousand (50,000) gross square feet (GSF) of interior building area of
agricultural commercial uses as defined herein. Public and community support
uses are not included in these totals.
   4.A major portion of the Dry Creek Valley floor will remain in use for
agricultural activities.
   5.There will be a designation of a major wildlife and winter range area,
both north of Currant Creek, south of the power line, and west of Cartwright
Road, as well as east of Cartwright Road and north of the power line.
   6.The total acreage of the open space areas will not decrease below eight
hundred ten (810) acres. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd.
Ord. 793, 12-7-2011)
8-21A-9-21: PLAN OVERVIEW:
Introduction: The primary objective of the Hidden Springs plan is to create a
rural community in the tradition of Idaho small towns spread throughout the
state's rural areas. The project will maintain the traditional character of Dry
Creek Valley while allowing for low density residential development. The
project will also protect and enhance the site's natural environment including
riparian areas, groundwater recharge areas, open space/natural features,
wildlife and winter range areas.
Homesites: The residential program for Hidden Springs is the result of a desire
to create a rural community with a variety of housing options for prospective
residents. The following overview provides a description of the six (6)
residential options:
Farm/ranch lots - These are agricultural style lots intended to preserve rural
character in the most visible portions of the Dry Creek Valley. The farm/ranch
lots are intended to provide a unique residential opportunity in conjunction
with carefully controlled farming or grazing operations.
Rural lots - These are lots which serve as buffers between farm lots and denser
residential lots or between the village center and adjoining properties. Rural
lots are intended to provide a transition from farm to village character.
Large lots - These are lots which are generally located on the site's
moderately sloped hillsides. These lots vary substantially in size and
configuration to respond to existing topography and minimize visual impact.
Regular lots - These are lots which generally occur in the side valleys and
coves where relatively flat land hidden from distant views can accommodate
higher densities. They may also be located in areas where smaller lots are most
appropriate.
Village homes - These are reminiscent of the "in town" lots traditionally found
in Idaho's agricultural towns and communities. These lots and homes built on
them are intended to form a close knit residential village with strong
pedestrian and community orientation like some of the established neighborhoods
of Boise (such as the north and east ends).
Townhomes - These are the community's smallest lots, intended to provide
alternative, attached or smaller detached homes which may appeal to seniors,
empty nesters, first time home buyers, and/or single parents who prefer a small
unit with limited yard area. Townhome lots are intended to be located in or
within convenient walking distance of the village center.
Nonresidential Uses: Commercial support uses are accommodated via three (3)
overlay zones as described below:
Village Commercial: This area provides for neighborhood businesses that are
compatible with the adjoining village residential uses. It will serve the
residents of Hidden Springs, the Dry Creek Valley and other nearby areas. A
general store will be developed in the first phase of the project to initiate
this village commercial zone and serve early residents of the project with
staples and services.
Agricultural Commercial: This area provides for agriculturally oriented
businesses (such as produce stands) that are compatible with agricultural
activities and nearby residential uses. Businesses located in this zone will
also serve the residents of Hidden Springs, the Dry Creek Valley and nearby
areas.
Employment Centers: Hidden Springs anticipates that certain specialized types
of employment centers may be attracted to this project because of its unique
setting, rural character, high quality development standards and community
values. Hidden Springs would like to reserve the right to incorporate future
employment centers and related contemplated uses providing these uses adhere to
the rigorous standards for compatibility and consistency described herein.
Other Uses: Public And Other Community Support Uses: Include the Community
Center, schools, daycare facilities, post office, recreational facilities, the
fire station, and an Equestrian Center. The community will also include a
greenbelt along Dry Creek, a series of regional and local trails, and
significant areas of open space.
   Table 4: Land Use And Density
   Land UGross Acreage1 Dwelling Units Percent Of Total Dwelling Units
   Land Use           Gross Acreage1 Dwelling Units Percent Of Total
                                                       Dwelling Units
Residential:                                          
Farm/ranch lots          53             32             3 percent
Rural lots               94             2              0 percent
Large lots               360            278            27 percent
Regular lots             7              11             1 percent
Village homes            253            696            67 percent
Townhomes                6              16             2 percent
Residential subtotals    773            1,035          100 percent
                                                     
Nonresidential:                                       
Open space/parks         963                           
Community Center/school  29                            
Equestrian Center        0                             
Nonresidential subtotals 992                           
                                                     
Totals                   1,765                         
 
Note:
1.   The gross acreage as adopted by findings by the board of county
commissioners is 1,163. The acreage breakdown will be corrected in a future
ordinance.
This table represents anticipated land uses as of May 2003. The final
allocation of uses may vary based on site and market conditions as allowed by
this application and zoning ordinance. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-
28-1999; amd. Ord. 509, 7-23-2003; amd. Ord. 697, 8-26-2008)
   PDF_link_to_Master_Land_Use_Plan_map
   Fig. 3-A
8-21A-9-22: PHASING PLAN:
         The phasing plan for the Hidden Springs community outlines the
anticipated sequence of development implementation. Initial phases of
construction are relatively easier to identify and predict than subsequent
phases will undoubtedly be adjusted in response to general economic conditions,
market forces and absorption rates. The community is currently projected to
take between seven (7) and twelve (12) years to build out.
The phasing plan map identifies the phases and sequence as anticipated at this
time. The sequence reflects two (2) primary considerations: one is that a
variety of densities and housing types are desirable for inclusion in each
phase; another is that infrastructure is planned for development in an
economically efficient manner. All land use types are included in each phase,
with the exception of the preliminary assumption that townhouse units may not
be developed until phases four and five. Phasing is planned in such a way that
at the completion of each phase all essential public services needed to meet
that and preceding phases are in place and that financing necessary for
maintenance and operation of those services is assured. Hidden Springs will be
developed in such a way that integrity of the community will be maintained at
the end of each phase.
Phase One (1997-1999): Preliminary projections are for the first phase to
include a mix of eighty (80) to one hundred sixty two (162) residential units
drawn from the following categories: farm/ranch lots, rural lots, large lots,
regular lots, and village home lots. The number of units in each of these
categories will be based on market demand and the need to offer potential
residents a variety of housing options.
This phase will also include roadway improvements to Seaman's Gulch Road,
McFarland Road and Dry Creek Road south and west of Dry Creek with associated
landscape and entry improvements. These improvements are all within the
development boundaries. A general store will be constructed near the realigned
intersection of Seaman's Gulch and Dry Creek. Utility systems to support this
phase will also be constructed including a water reservoir, water distribution
lines, sewage treatment system, and the storm water retention areas servicing
the phase I development area. A significant portion of the trail system will
also be developed.
Subsequent Phases: The rate of development following the initial phase, exact
location and number of future phases, and types and number of units to be
included in each future phase may be revised based on market demand, regional
and national economic conditions and construction logistics. Analysis at this
time indicates that approximately seventy five (75) to one hundred (100) units
per year can be successfully absorbed. A seven (7) to twelve (12) year build
out is therefore assumed. The anticipated completion time for each phase is as
follows:
TABLE 5: PHASING
Phase Year Residential Units Land Contained
TABLE 5: PHASING
Phase   Year    Residential Units Land Contained
Phase 1 1997–9162               184
Phase 2 2000–0134               58
Phase 3 2003–0102               24
Phase 4 2005–0138               41
Phase 5 2007–0132               62
Phase 6 2009–1105               40
Phase 7 2011–1176               195
Phase 8 2013–186                169
              1,035             773
 
Anticipated population levels for each phase can be determined by multiplying
the estimated number of persons per unit - 2.5 - by the number of units
anticipated in each phase.
As part of the county review of the Hidden Springs development that will occur
every two (2) years, the developer will provide the director with a summary
including: number of residential units and commercial uses platted to date;
number of and type of units built by type; quantities and types of commercial
and public facilities; a description of all infrastructure and services
developed; and an updated outline of future phases. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd.
Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord. 509, 7-23-2003)
   PDF_link_to_map_entitled_"Phasing_Plan"_here
   Fig. 3-B
8-21A-9-23: ROADS AND CIRCULATION:
Overall Objectives: The design of the vehicular and pedestrian circulation
system at Hidden Springs must meet the safety and functional intent of the Ada
County Highway District (ACHDs) design standards while not compromising the
aesthetic, environmental, and community building goals of the project. The
circulation hierarchy and typical cross sections which follow strive to strike
a balance between these two (2) requirements. The main objectives of the Hidden
Springs circulation system include:
   1.Provide a functionally efficient, safe, balanced, network of vehicular,
bicycle and pedestrian facilities.
   2.Maintain the project's rural character by using rural cross sections
wherever possible.
   3.Minimize disturbance of existing soils and vegetation.
   4.Minimize runoff and associated erosion.
   5.Use grassed swales wherever possible to disperse storm water, allow for
maximum percolation and remove runoff pollutants.
   6.Provide on-street parking throughout the Village Center.
   7.Design street cross sections to a level that provides relative ease of
vehicular movement, while also affording reduced speeds.
   8.Accommodate "through" bicycle traffic on-street and "recreational" bicycle
traffic both on street and on shared pedestrian/bicycle paths separated from
roadways.
   9.Allow sidewalks and shared pedestrian/bicycle paths to meander in
pedestrian easements outside the road right of way for maximum design
flexibility.
   Table 6: Road Standards
   Road        Total Travel Shoulder Turn   Parking  Sidewalk/ Setback  Curb
Type       R.O.W. Pvmnt Lanes  Width    Lane/  (Left)   Bik e     To Path  Type
                  Width        (ea)     Median          Path      (1)
   Road         Total Travel Shoulder Turn   Parking Sidewalk/ Setback Curb
Type        R.O.W. Pvmnt Lanes  Width    Lane/  (Left)  Bik e     To Path Type
                   Width        (ea)     Median         Path      (1)
Rural
collector - 60'    24'   2@12'  3'       None   None    10'       N/A     None
typical
Rural
collector - 60'    36'   2@12'  3'       12'    None    10'       N/A     None
with turn
land
Rural
collector - 46'    24'   2@12'  3'       None   None    8'        N/A     None
constrained
Dry Creek                                                                 6"
Bridge      60'    26'   2@13'  0'       None   None    10'       N/A     Vertical
crossing
Rural
residential 50'    22'   2@11'  3'       None   None    8'        N/A     None
- typical
Rural
residential 40'    22'   2@11'  0'       None   None    8'        N/A     12"
-                                                                         Ribbon
constrained
Village                                                                   6"
street -    72'    50'   2@12'  0'       10'    8'      5'        6'      Vertical
primary
Village                                                                   6"
street -    56'    34'   2@10'  0'       None   7'      5'        6'      Veritcal
residential
Village     20'    16'   N/A    2'       None   None    None      N/A     None
alley
 
Note:
(1)   Distance measured from face of curb.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2234.png]
 
Notes:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
(2)   The ROW shall be 80 feet for Cartwright Road southeast of its
intersection with Dry Creek Road and for Dry Creek Road from its eastern
terminus westward to and including the Dry Creek Bridge.
Rural Collector - Typical (Seaman's Gulch Road, Dry Creek Road, and lower
Cartwright Road): Rural collectors serve to collect traffic from and distribute
traffic to village streets and rural residential roadways throughout the
project. They will also serve to accommodate through traffic - although through
traffic will be discouraged to help maintain the rural character and minimize
environmental impact to the Dry Creek Valley. The typical section includes a
60' right of way with two (2) 12-foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot stabilized
shoulders, and two (2) 8- foot maximum width grass swales. A single ten foot
(10') pedestrian/bicycle path will meander in a pedestrian easement generally
parallel to the right of way but not always contiguous to the right of way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2236.png]
 
Notes:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
Rural Collector - With Turn Lane: For rural collectors where turn lanes are
needed a twelve foot (12') center turn lane will be added as necessary to
accommodate turning movement into project roadways. The section will also
include travel lanes of twelve feet (12'). Otherwise the section will remain
the same as the typical rural collector.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2240.png]
 
Notes:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
Rural Collector - Constrained (upper Cartwright Road): The rural collector
constrained section mainly occurs in the upper portion of Cartwright Road. In
order to maintain the visual character and minimize the site disturbance this
section has been narrowed. The typical section includes a forty six foot (46')
right of way with two (2) 12-foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot stabilized
shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum width grass swales. A single eight foot
(8') shared pedestrian/bicycle path will be approximately parallel to the right
of way in a separate pedestrian easement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2242.png]
 
Notes:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
Dry Creek Bridge Crossing: The Dry Creek Bridge Crossing will provide enhanced
capacity, safety and the addition of separate bicycle/pedestrian facility
across Dry Creek. The bridge can also serve as a primary visual identity
element for the project, and may become a "covered bridge" with appropriate
vertical clearance and architectural style. The bridge crossing will remain in
its current location. Bridge width and associated grading should be kept to a
minimum to prevent impact to the riparian corridor. The typical section
includes a thirty two foot (32') wide bridge surface with two (2) 13-foot
travel lanes. A single ten foot (10') pedestrian/bicycle path will be
accommodated in a separate pedestrian/bicycle bridge crossing.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2244.png]
 
Notes:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
Rural Residential - Typical: Rural residential streets include most of the
roadways in Hidden Springs and will serve to carry local traffic to/from
individual homesites. These roadways will be located and designed to discourage
through traffic and maintain low vehicular speeds. The typical section includes
a fifty foot (50') right of way with two (2) 11-foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-
foot stabilized shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum width grass swales. A
single eight foot (8') shared pedestrian/bicycle path will meander beyond the
ROW in a pedestrian easement as necessary.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2246.png]
 
Notes:
(1)   Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
Rural Residential - Constrained: Constrained rural residential streets occur in
steeply sloped areas that cannot handle the width required for the typical
rural residential section. This section includes a forty foot (40') right of
way with two (2) 11-foot travel lanes, no stabilized shoulders (but a 12 inch
ribbon curb included in the 11 foot travel lane) and one grass swale on the
uphill side of the street. An eight foot (8') pedestrian/bicycle path will be
located on the downhill side of the street with a wood guardrail separating it
from the street for safety purposes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2248.png]
 
Village Street - Primary (Seaman's Gulch Road, Dry Creek Road, and McFarland
Road within the Village Center): Primary village streets will serve as the
"main streets" of the Village Center and will accommodate the potential for
commercial uses, community center, school and village residential uses along
their frontage. Village streets should establish a comfortable environment for
pedestrians with slower vehicular speeds, frequent vehicular stops, on-street
parking and tree-lined sidewalks. The typical section includes a seventy two
foot (72') ROW with two (2) 12-foot travel lanes, one ten foot (10') turn lane
(where necessary) or planted median, two (2) 8-foot parallel parking lanes, and
five foot (5') sidewalks set back from the curb with a five foot six inch
(5'6") tree lawn on both sides of the street and within the right of way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2250.png]
Village Residential (All other streets within the Village Center): Residential
village streets should also establish a comfortable pedestrian environment with
slow vehicular speeds, frequent vehicular stops, on-street parking and tree-
lined sidewalks. Because turning volumes for these streets should be low enough
to eliminate the need for turn lanes, the typical section includes a fifty six
foot (56') right of way with two (2) 10-foot travel lanes, two (2) 7-foot
parallel parking lanes and five foot (5') sidewalks set back from the curb with
a five foot six inch (5'6") tree lawn.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2252.png]
Village Alley: Alleys will be created to eliminate driveways on village
streets. Fewer driveways on village streets means more on-street parking, more
resident interaction, less utilitarian infrastructure and no unsightly garages
lining residential streets. Alleys will also be used for utility easements,
trash collection and emergency vehicular access. The typical alley section
includes a sixteen foot (16') paved lane with two foot (2') shoulders on each
side.
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
PDF_Link_to_Fig._3-C_Roads_and_Circulation_Plan
 
8-21A-9-24: TRAFFIC STRATEGY:
Hidden Springs has been carefully planned to minimize traffic impacts on
surrounding roadways and concentrate off-site trips to the south and west of
the community. Six (6) key elements of this strategy are:
Project Density: It is anticipated that approximately seventy five percent
(75%) of the population of the Hidden Springs Community is projected to be
located on the south side of Dry Creek Road. The traffic analysis of Hidden
Springs concludes the highest percentage of trips into downtown Boise, Eagle
and south to I-84 will occur within the existing road system to the south and
west of the project: on Seaman's Gulch Road, to Hill Road, Gary Lane to
Glenwood Road and State Street; and on Dry Creek Road west to Highway 55.
Location Of Village Center: The Village Center with its commercial uses,
schools and other community activities will capture traffic within the
community and reduce the need to go outside the community for goods and
services.
Trip Reduction Strategy: A trip reduction strategy is included as part of the
overall Hidden Springs Traffic Strategy. This strategy is centered around the
concept of travel demand management, which will result in trip reduction based
on providing commercial and community support uses in the Village Center,
telecommuting, recreation facilities, a park and ride lot, an extensive bicycle
and pedestrian path system, and vanpooling.
Rural Road Sections: As part of the rural character of the community, rural
road sections (designs) will be utilized to the greatest extent possible and
based on approval of these sections by ACHD. These sections will not have
curbs, gutters or sidewalks. Also, these roads will have a parallel path system
that will accommodate bicycles and pedestrians thereby reducing vehicular trips
and improving both the safety and alternate transportation options in the
community.
Future Growth Scenario: Due to the topography of the area, it is anticipated
that the bulk of future development within Dry Creek Valley will occur to the
west of Hidden Springs. Strategic placement of Hidden Springs densities at the
south, and placement of the Village Center at the west end of the community
will lead this future trend and route the majority of community traffic toward
transportation corridors to the population centers and services to the west.
Traffic Focus And Diversion: Hidden Springs supports traffic planning and
design measures that will direct traffic to corridors with adequate capacity
and future additional potential. These measures include: diversionary
intersections at Hill Road and Gary Lane, Hill Road and 36th (both recently
adopted by ACHD), and Cartwright Road and 36th Street (future) that will direct
traffic to the south rather than along Hill Road and Harrison Boulevard; and
plans for new and expanded north-south corridors on Eagle Road and on routes
being evaluated in the Bench to Valley Study.
The widening of 36th Street and connection of Veteran's Memorial Parkway
through to Curtis Road and the I-84 connector will result in a significant
reduction in potential traffic on State Street and through parts of the North
End. Also, the future connection of Gary Lane and Glenwood Road through to Cole
Road and the mall area will provide another major north-south connection that
will ease pressures on the North End.
These improvements will greatly increase the already good accessibility of
Hidden Springs. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-25: TRIP REDUCTION STRATEGY:
Travel Demand Management Through Trip Reduction Strategy: One of the primary
concerns surrounding development of the foothills is the potential traffic
impact on existing neighborhoods. The Hidden Springs Specific Plan places major
emphasis on the concept of Travel Demand Management. The Plan incorporates trip
reduction strategies to promote trip containment and trip reduction to minimize
impacts on existing transportation networks and existing neighborhoods. In
addition, the Specific Plan focuses traffic away from areas such as Harrison
Boulevard, where traffic capacity is currently strained. As previously noted,
recent decisions by ACHD concerning new north-south connections on Curtis Road
and Glenwood Street will reduce potential traffic pressures on the North End.
Hidden Springs is focused around a Village Center which contains recreational,
institutional and commercial activities. These may include: general store,
hardware, cafe, real estate office, daycare, grade school site, and a community
center. The initial phase will contain approximately 80-162 units, and will
include construction of the general store.
Other elements of the community and design will support trip reductions. Hidden
Springs will incorporate the most advanced practical telecommunications
technology to encourage and promote telecommuting. The site will also have a
pedestrian and bicycle trail system for internal circulation and connections to
the Village Center which will access the wider foothills trail system. Hidden
Springs will also have a park and ride lot near the Village Center.
Bicycle security facilities will be installed at several locations in the
Village Center and at the park and ride lot to provide residents complete
nonautomobile transportation.
Upon the issuance of the 300th, 500th and 700th residential building permits,
Hidden Springs will provide the local matching funds for the purchase of a van
for project residents to use in Ada County Highway District's vanpooling
program. Hidden Springs will provide a bus shelter in the Village Center for
use when the regional transit district provides bus service to the area. (Ord.
325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-26: OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS STRATEGY:
Overview: Hidden Springs includes a strategy for creating a comprehensive
system of trails and paths to allow pedestrian, bicycle and equestrian access
to open space and outlying foothill areas. Internally, this system will connect
the residential neighborhoods with the Village Center, community open space and
the greenbelt along Dry Creek. These internal trails will in turn provide
external connections to regional open space and the trail system along Currant
Creek, McFarland Creek and Dry Creek. Five (5) highlights of this strategy
include:
Safety: The path and trail system will generally be contiguous although not
always directly parallel to the community road system. This will allow
pedestrians and bicycles to circulate independently of vehicular traffic
providing a greater degree of safety.
Trip Reduction: Providing alternative modes of travel is one of the primary
goals of Hidden Springs. Developing trails and distinct internal connections
between the open space, neighborhoods and the Village Center, as well as access
to community facilities and recreation areas for pedestrian and bicycle traffic
will reduce the number of vehicular trips necessary within the project area.
Regional Connections: The Hidden Springs trail system will make a major
contribution to regional public access and trail systems. Hidden Springs will
implement the first phase of a greenbelt trail that runs along Dry Creek, from
Bogus Basin to the city of Eagle. It will also implement major pieces of the
foothills regional trail system that provides access across the western
foothills and beyond.
Wildlife Protection: Wildlife is considered an important natural resource of
Hidden Springs. Therefore, protection of wildlife habitat is an important
component of the trails and open space strategy. Major trails and paths within
the community typically occur along the perimeter of wildlife management areas
and riparian corridors. This will allow pedestrian, bicycle and equestrian
access to these areas, while also maintaining the integrity of the habitat's
larger area. Intrusions or disturbance by development will be minimized.
Wildfire Prevention: Strategic alignment of the trail system around the
perimeter of neighborhood and wildlife management areas will provide emergency
access for homeowners and firefighters while serving as fire breaks to limit
the spread or incidence of wildfire. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
   PDF_Link_to_Open_Space_and_Trails_Plan_here
   Fig. 3-D
8-21A-9-27: WILDFIRE PREVENTION STRATEGY:
Background: The Hidden Springs community has been carefully planned with a
strategy for the prevention, control and rapid extinguishment of wildfires.
This program is intended to address the legitimate concern about residential
development in the foothill areas as it relates to public safety and wildfire
prevention, while maintaining the functional and aesthetic parameters of the
community. Development of a program for wildfire prevention has been an effort
involving members of the planning team and local fire experts. This strategy
has been reviewed with fire and resource experts since the 1996 wildfire
affecting the Hidden Springs property. The consensus is that the strategy
remains valid and highly desirable as an approach to dealing with fire hazards
in the foothills. Seven (7) primary criteria have been identified in
establishing a sound wildfire prevention program for this project:
Available Water: Two (2) aspects of water systems have been considered in the
planning and development of this community. The first is the quality and
quantity of water available for domestic use. The second is the type of system
and quantity of water available for fire protection. The availability of water
for fire protection on the Hidden Springs community will exceed the minimum
storage requirement of five hundred fifty thousand (550,000) gallons. Fire flow
will also exceed the minimum one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons per
minute with additional buffering for peak hour demands.
Water mains will be sized to accommodate fire hydrants at a maximum of five
hundred foot (500') spacing in residential areas and about three hundred fifty
foot (350') spacing near commercial and community structures. Hydrants will be
strategically located near emergency access easements to the residential
perimeter and wildlife management areas, as well as periodically along
roadways. Booster pumps to ensure adequate pressure and backup power are also
part of the design of the water distribution system.
Lots greater than 2.5 acres located north of the power lines will be served
from individual wells, subject to approval by the required jurisdictional
agencies. Each residential building will be required to have a fire sprinkler
system meeting NFPA 13D supplied from their individual well. Fire hydrants
connected to the public water system are located approximately one and one-
fourth (11/4) miles south of the 9th addition access on Cartwright Road. Fill
and return time for a firetruck would be ten (10) minutes or less.
Proximity Of Fire Services: Fire service will be provided by the North Ada fire
and rescue district. The bureau of land management also has responsibilities
for fire protection in the foothills because of extensive public lands in the
area. A fire station site will be provided in the village center in the first
phase of the project. When the district constructs a station on the site,
volunteers from Hidden Springs may be asked to supplement the staff at the new
station. The new facility is envisioned by the district to house a pumper,
tanker and grassfire equipment (that have adequate capacity to serve Hidden
Springs, the Dry Creek Valley and adjacent areas) at its completion.
Emergency Vehicle Access: Primary roads within the community will be designed
to provide access for emergency vehicles. Provisions will be made for access by
firefighting equipment and personnel from two (2) directions into each
residential neighborhood. All roads will have a maximum gradient of ten percent
(10%). Spurs that serve those areas occurring off the primary roads will
terminate in cul-de-sacs, with adequate turnarounds for emergency vehicles. All
roads will be maintained by Ada County highway district to its standards.
Emergency access easements to residential perimeters and major open space areas
will be provided at strategic locations, including ends of cul-de-sacs and
between adjoining lots.
Site Planning: Careful site planning for fire protection at the perimeter of
the residential neighborhoods as well as local protection for individual
homesites is a critical function of the wildfire prevention program for Hidden
Springs. As such, a comprehensive system of roads, trails, riparian greenways
and open preserves is an integral part of each neighborhood. This system
provides strategic emergency access points and firebreaks at the neighborhood
perimeters that allow firefighters to confine a fire to a small area. To reduce
local exposure to hillside areas, the residential lots in each neighborhood
will be low density, with a limited building envelope on the most level portion
of the site. Also, setbacks will be required between all structures and
adjacent slopes.
Noncombustible Construction Materials: Architectural design guidelines for the
Hidden Springs project will require that noncombustible materials such as tile/
slate, asphalt composition shingles, and standing seam metal be utilized for
roofing materials. These guidelines will also require any highly combustible
material used for exterior siding, paneling, fencing and other wood structures
to be factory treated with an industry rated fire retardant chemical.
Landscaping And Fuel Modification: The landscape planting guidelines for Hidden
Springs will include provisions for wildfire prevention in conjunction with
site planning, aesthetics, water requirements, native plants and ongoing
maintenance programs. The goal of these guideline provisions will be twofold.
First, to implement a comprehensive landscape design that will reduce fuel
volume in the common and perimeter areas, and second, to provide individual
homesites with a framework for fuel modification. The guideline criteria for
the fuel modification in the common areas and residential neighborhoods of
Hidden Springs are: planting fire resistant plant materials; establishing
irrigated landscape envelopes within each homesite; developing vegetation
buffers that provide transition to adjacent native vegetation and establishing
criteria for clearance between buildings and plantings within each site.
Following the wildfire on a portion of the Hidden Springs property in the
summer of 1996, a revegetation effort is getting underway. In consultation with
wildfire and vegetation experts, a mix of fire resistant grasses and plants
will be planted in several stages over the coming months.
Maintenance And Management: Ongoing maintenance, management and enforcement of
the wildfire prevention program will be the responsibility of the community
association and governed by the covenants, codes and restrictions for the
Hidden Springs community. The design guidelines for the project will be
administered by a design review committee for site planning, architectural and
landscape design compliance with the wildfire prevention program. Additionally,
public information and education programs about wildfire prevention will be
developed in cooperation with the North Ada fire and rescue district and the
bureau of land management. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 793, 12-7-2011)
8-21A-9-28: WILDLIFE STRATEGY:
Wildlife Preservation And Enhancement Techniques: The Hidden Springs project
will take an active approach to optimizing the site's ability to support a wide
diversity of wildlife species. The master land use plan includes the following
wildlife management and enhancement techniques:
   1.Designation of a major wildlife area and winter range area both north of
Currant Creek, south of the power line and west of Cartwright Road as well as
east of Cartwright Road and north of the power line. Hidden Springs will work
with the bureau of land management (BLM) and the Idaho department of fish and
game (IDFG) to enhance vegetation in this area including supplemental seeding
and seedling planting of sage and bitterbrush. Hidden Springs will allow IDFG
to post peak seasonal closure signs surrounding this winter range area. This
includes posting peak seasonal closure signs at the trailheads to this area.
   2.Designation of multiple portions of the site as permanent open space
including:
      •The agricultural area in the valley floor.
      •The Dry Creek riparian corridor.
      •Most of the south facing slopes north of Dry Creek.
      •The Currant Creek riparian corridor.
      •The McFarland Creek riparian corridor and surrounding valley floor.
   3.Designation of several trail/migration corridors including:
      •The Dry Creek regional greenbelt and migration corridor.
      •The Currant Creek regional trail and migration corridor.
      •The McFarland Creek trail and migration corridor.
      •A series of local intracommunity trails including a loop trail around
development to the southwest, a trail connecting Currant Creek to Dry Creek and
a trail connecting the power line to Currant Creek.
      •Working closely with neighboring landowners, as the Grossman family has
been, to encourage them to extend these trails and corridors through their
properties to the federal lands beyond.
   4.Location of low density farm/ranch and rural lots as buffers near those
areas of the site which accommodate greater intensities of wildlife species.
   5.Designation of building envelopes on all large, rural and farm/ranch lots
to minimize the disruption of wildlife habitat in the form of native
groundcover vegetation and existing soil and drainage patterns.
   6.Restricting fencing in rear lot buffer areas which abut major wildlife
migration corridors and the preserved winter range area.
In addition, the project's design guidelines (section
8-21A-6 of this article) will:
   1.Encourage the clustering of buildings and related landscape to maximize
contiguous open space.
   2.Limit fencing across critical migration corridors to a maximum height and
minimum kickspace as recommended by Idaho fish and game. If barbed wire fencing
is used, the bottom wire shall be smooth.
   3.Require all new landscape material on lots outside building envelopes to
be drought tolerant, native and from a list of less palatable or nonpalatable
plant species.
   4.Encourage replanting of wildlife food species and plant species which
enhance critical habitat.
   5.Prohibit the installation and require the complete removal of noxious
plants and weeds within the designated development envelope by the builder or
homeowner.
   6.Require builders to employ "best practices" grading techniques including
incremental phasing/reparation, dust controls, grading, limit fencing, etc.
   7.Limit modifications to natural drainageways to those which are absolutely
necessary or those which increase the effectiveness of the drainageway in
carrying stormwater and accommodating wildlife.
   8.Prohibit exposed dumping and composting (covered composting is permitted).
   9.Require residential trash to be kept inside the house, garage or
appropriate enclosure until the morning of trash collection. Encourage trash
containers to have attached lids.
   10.Require dogs and cats to be in latchable carriers or on leashes when
outside the residential or commercial lots during critical migration periods as
determined by Idaho fish and game.
   11.Prohibit contractors from bringing dogs to construction sites.
   12.Limit motorized vehicles from roads and trails (4 wheel drive vehicles,
snowmobiles and motorcycles) except for construction, fire, emergency and
maintenance vehicles.
   13.Include wildlife educational materials and an acknowledgment of wildlife
presence and the potential for property damage in the project's homeowners'
documents.
   14.Post big game crossing signs at major crossing points along Cartwright
Road and Dry Creek Road (maximum 4 signs). Where wildlife and development
conflicts continue to occur despite these measures, Hidden Springs will work
with local, state and federal agencies in an attempt to resolve these
conflicts. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-29: WATER SUPPLY:
A water infrastructure extension agreement to provide Hidden Springs potable
water is in place between United Water Idaho, Inc. (United Water), and Hidden
Springs. Water transmission, storage and the first phase of the water
distribution facilities have been built, tested and are available for service.
Lots greater than 2.5 acres located north of the power lines will be served
from individual wells, subject to approval by the required jurisdictional
agencies.
Water Supply Requirements - South Of Power Lines: The average demand is
estimated at approximately 0.275 million gallons per day (mgd) or about two
hundred (200) gallons per minute (gpm). This demand is equivalent to a
withdrawal of three hundred (300) acre- feet. Approximately forty (40) to forty
five percent (45%) (135 acre-feet) of this annual usage will be consumptively
used by irrigation, with the remainder returning to the aquifer as recharge
from the subsurface wastewater treatment system. The peak day demand is
estimated at 1.4 mgd, or approximately one thousand (1,000) gpm.
Sources: Existing system extension. An agreement has been reached with United
Water Company to supply water to the project from this source, a booster pump
station would be built at the storage reservoir, and a water main extended to
the project area. A second storage reservoir on the north side of the summit
between Seaman's Gulch and Dry Creek provides gravity service to the water
system described in the following section.
Water Supply Requirements - North Of Power Lines: The average demand for an
individual home varies with occupancy. Estimates are based on the number of
bedrooms within the home.
Sources: Individual wells on each lot will be the source of water for domestic
and irrigation uses.
One Hundred Twenty Acre Annexation Area: United Water has agreed that the
annexation area is serviceable as approved by the Idaho public utilities
commission. United Water will supply water to Hidden Springs from United
Water's existing source supply through the new transmission facilities. The
annexation area has been reduced to ninety seven (97) acres due to the transfer
of twenty three (23) acres to the Cartwright Ranch planned community in 2007.
Conclusion: It is anticipated that the development of Hidden Springs will not
negatively impact groundwater supply in the vicinity. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997;
amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord. 697, 8-26-2008; amd. Ord. 793, 12-7-2011)
8-21A-9-30: WATER SYSTEM:
Introduction: As discussed in section
8-21A-9-29 of this article, the primary water supply for the Hidden Springs
project has been developed as an extension of United Water Company service
lines. Lots greater than 2.5 acres located north of the power lines will be
served by individual wells, subject to approval by the required jurisdictional
agencies.
United Water Service General Description: The primary water system has been
designed in accordance with the Idaho regulations for public drinking water
systems, title I, chapter 8 section 1-8200.1, as required by the Idaho Code 39-
118 or 50-1326 and the fire code as adopted by the state of Idaho. The system
will supply water as the primary agent for fire extinguishment.
United Water Service Demand Analysis: A plan has been prepared for the
transmission and storage facilities as well as to guide the design of the
distribution facilities for each phase of the planned community. The estimated
maximum daily total consumption for all phases is one thousand seven hundred
fifty (1,750) gallons per minute, which includes fire demand and a system
leakage allowance. The peak demand for any one hour period for all phases is
three thousand three hundred fifty (3,350) gallons per minute. The transmission
and storage facilities have been designed to accommodate expansion of the
system beyond Hidden Springs' original entitlement and can accommodate one
hundred twenty (120) additional dwelling units.
United Water Service Storage: Storage for domestic consumption and fire flow
demand will be provided from the existing Hidden Springs reservoir. This three
hundred fifty thousand (350,000) gallon tank is built, tested, and in service.
A second reservoir may be constructed if required to maintain system pressure
in development areas north of Dry Creek at relatively high elevations.
United Water Service Zones: Hidden Springs encompasses domestic services that
will range over approximately nine hundred (900) vertical feet elevation. This
range of elevation will require several service zones. The IRPDWS require a
minimum design pressure of thirty five (35) pounds per square inch (psi) and a
maximum pressure of one hundred (100) psi. These pressure criteria will be
achieved through the use of eight (8) service zones, with average daily
pressures ranging from forty (40) psi at the top of each zone to ninety (90)
psi at the bottom of each zone.
Booster pumps located at zone boundaries will supply domestic demands to the
higher zones and fill the storage tanks as required north of Dry Creek. Once
the tanks are filled, the boosters will be cycled off and supply will come from
the tanks down through pressure reducing stations into the lower zones.
United Water Service Distribution Mains: Water mains are required to connect
supply, storage and domestic service zones. The IRPDWS require that hydrants be
connected to mains six inches (6") and larger in diameter. Other mains will be
larger as required for adequate fire flows. The fire code requires that
hydrants be spaced at intervals not to exceed five hundred feet (500') for
residential fire demands. Hydrant spacing can vary somewhat to accommodate
intersections and larger lots. Hydrant spacing near commercial and community
structures will be decreased to about three hundred fifty feet (350') or as
local conditions require.
United Water Service Meters: This system includes meters for all users. The
meter installation includes an automatic readout device located near the meter
or at a convenient location nearby. These meters, data storage devices and
database software together with a rate structure that promotes conservation are
the heart and soul of the water system management structure.
United Water Service To Units: Hidden Springs is committed to providing service
to all residential units in the community. The water distribution plan map
shows the conceptual layout of the water distribution system and is not
intended to document a complete layout of the entire community system. During
design and plotting of individual phases, specific design and location for all
service lines will be finalized and documented in the appropriate documents.
Individual Wells: The large lots located north of the power lines will have
individual, on site wells that will provide domestic water and fire sprinkler
water to meet NFPA 13D requirements. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-
1999; amd. Ord. 560, 8-24-2004; amd. Ord. 793, 12-7-2011)
   PDF_link_to_map_of_"Water_Distribution_Plan"
   Fig. 3-E
8-21A-9-31: WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT:
Water quality protection is a central strategic aspect of Hidden Springs.
Certainly, the local and state environmental regulations will not tolerate any
foreseeable pollution to either ground water or surface water. More important,
the prospective market for land ownership in the proposed development will not
tolerate pollution or even the potential for pollution of surface water and
ground water. Water quality management is reflected throughout this application
in the land uses, in the infrastructure and in the way the owner's association
operates. The following is a brief summary of the various water quality
management practices incorporated throughout this application:
Water Conservation: The most effective way to manage water quality is to
conserve water. Hidden Springs policies include conservation of ground water
used for domestic supply and for irrigation. These conservation measures are
intended to minimize the amount of natural ground water brought into the
consumption or usage cycle, leaving the most water at the source and the ground
water untouched. Conservation will take several general forms. Water will be
conserved by limiting the area and type of irrigation allowed throughout the
development. Domestic supply will be limited by promoting or requiring the use
of water-saving showers and fixtures within each individual house or commercial
unit. Lastly, all sources of use throughout the proposed development will be
metered and a monitoring system established to track the use and abuse of water
supply throughout the development. Other specific water conservation strategies
will be applied where appropriate and are discussed in the following section.
Road And Drainage Design: Roads have been laid out throughout Hidden Springs in
a manner that takes advantage of local terrain and soil conditions. The roadway
concepts in this application include rural road section with large grass swales
and various runoff features on-site which are used to collect, treat and
dispose of excess drainage. Runoff from the site will not exceed predevelopment
levels. Runoff from hard surfaces on lots is intended to be retained on the lot
site in grassed areas or swales provided in or adjacent to the building
envelope. On larger rural lots, individual drainage retention and disposal
features may take other forms. Generally, all lots will be graded with
retention swales strategically located on each lot.
Land Use Configuration: The absolute foundation for rational development
including water quality management is to utilize the natural soils and geologic
features on-site to their optimum. This type of planning is the basis of the
configuration presented in this application. Water quality management becomes a
subconscious element of the layout process.
Wastewater Treatment System: The wastewater treatment system constructed for
Hidden Springs is a sophisticated aerated lagoon biological treatment system.
For some individual lots greater than two and one-half (2.5) acres, individual
septic tanks and drainfields may be used. All collection, treatment, and
disposal features have been planned, designed and constructed in accordance
with current regulatory guidelines and mandates. These guidelines and mandates
have been established to protect ground water quality. The good soils and
geologic conditions anticipated on this proposed site offer an excellent
opportunity to implement these wastewater treatment facilities without any
impact on ground water.
Implementation Strategy: Hidden Springs will demonstrate the technical
feasibility of successful water quality management. If the technical
feasibility is to become reality, certain implementation milestones should be
scheduled. In preliminary design the following milestones are important:
It is anticipated that the development of Hidden Springs will not negatively
impact surface and ground water quality in the vicinity.
During construction an environmental field coordinator should be on site. That
person's responsibility should include observations to assure that construction
activities and constructed facilities are in conformance with the intent and
recommendations of the water quality management concept introduced in this
application.
After construction a suitable monitoring and management structure must be in
place. It must have the authority and ongoing resources to administer the
water, wastewater treatment, and drainage facilities.
Qualified professional management entities will be retained to supervise
operations, maintenance and monitoring of the water system and wastewater
treatment system. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999)
8-21A-9-32: WATER CONSERVATION:
Water conservation is an important component of Hidden Springs' goals; and as
such a comprehensive water management program will be established for the
project. The goal of the water conservation plan is very simply to reduce the
amount of water diverted, used and consumed in the proposed development.
The water conservation plan is presented below. Detailed implementation
measures will be developed and available for review as part of the planning
process on a phase by phase basis. The measures will adopt water conservation
measures for both exterior and interior uses.
The water conservation plan is as follows:
   •Building/landscape envelopes on all residential lots larger than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
   •Use of drought tolerant grasses and shrubs.
   •Efficient irrigation equipment, scheduling and management.
   •Soil amendment in landscape areas.
   •Mulch cover in landscape areas.
The interior water conservation plan will include covenants or architectural
standards that seek to implement interior water conservation. The plan will
consider the following conservation measures:
   •High efficiency (low flow) showerheads, toilets and faucets.
   •Water meters and a water usage database that facilitate real time analysis.
   •Timed controller for specific uses such as lawns.
Based on experience and current literature, it is reasonable to expect that
water usage can be significantly reduced below what is "normal" for the area.
The planning target for conservation is ten (10) to fifteen percent (15%)
reduction from these "normal" predicted demands. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-33: SEWER SYSTEM:
General Description: Hidden Springs plans for a wide range of land uses and
densities. The land uses in this specific plan are tailored, in part, to the
ability of the soils and geology to support those uses. Land with soils and/or
geology that cannot reasonably support development are left open and
undeveloped. Land with soils, geologic and/or topographic limitations that can
support only limited or low density development are set aside for the larger
rural lots. The more intense land uses are reserved to those areas where solid
geology and topography are well suited to those land uses.
Planning for sewage collection, treatment and reuse requires attention to
several goals.
   •Use a method of collection that is well suited to the largely rural nature
of the project.
   •Use a method of treatment and disposal that is suited to the soils, geology
and hydrogeology of the area.
   •Use the treated wastewater in a manner that is consistent with the goal of
protecting groundwater quality.
   •Do not discharge treated wastewater to surface water.
   •Use a system that does not depend on treatment and disposal through
existing systems in Boise and Eagle.
   •Use a system that lends itself to professional management of operations and
maintenance.
Lots greater than 2.5 acres located north of the power lines will be served
through individual systems with the same general processes described above.
A sewer collection network, central sewage lift station, wastewater treatment
plant and treated wastewater distribution pipeline system has been built,
tested and is available for service. The design, construction and operation of
the system are regulated by the Idaho department of health and welfare-division
of environmental quality (IDHW-DEQ).
Individual Systems: The portion of Hidden Springs north of the power lines is
single-family homes on rural and farm/ranch lots. Generally, and in this case,
individual wastewater treatment systems are both practical and well suited
methods to manage domestic wastewater. In the current proposed layout, the
rural and farm/ranch lots have been sited on soils that do provide good
conditions for a limited number of individual septic tanks and drain fields.
The areas for individual septic tanks and drain fields will undergo three (3)
levels of review before they are ultimately permitted; those levels of review
are:
   •Planning,
   •Preliminary, and
   •Permitting.
The planning level of review is that which can be expected as a result of this
application. Information presented in the predevelopment conditions section in
this application provides a good description of the expected soils, geology and
groundwater conditions on the site. As mentioned, these findings have guided
the siting of various uses. They also provide information suitable to establish
general technical feasibility wastewater treatment systems and pressurized,
subsurface dosing systems in the areas identified for their usage. More
specific information will be required in subsequent review levels.
After this application is submitted and approved, the applicant will then
proceed with preliminary design and final design for each successive phase. The
initial phase preliminary design will include additional study for the area
included in these phases. Typically, the preliminary study will include the
following tasks:
   •Coordinate with the Central district health (CDH) and the division of
environmental quality (DEQ) to confirm the specific scope of study for both
individual and community and surface disposal systems.
   •Open soil observation pits and prepare soils logs and strategically
position groundwater observation and groundwater monitoring holes.
   •Evaluate soils, topography and geology.
   •Develop design, sizing and location recommendations for all systems.
   •Provide findings to CDH for approval.
Community System: In the areas where lots are generally smaller than two and
one-half (2.5) acres, a wastewater treatment system is used.
The sewer collection network is a conventional gravity flow network of
pipelines that flows to a central sewage lift station. The sewage lift station
pumps the sewage to the wastewater treatment plant. The wastewater treatment
plant is an aerated lagoon biological treatment system with a treated
wastewater storage impoundment. The biologically treated wastewater is stored
through the nongrowing season until it can be beneficially used for irrigation
during the growing season. The biologically treated wastewater will be pumped
from the storage impoundment through a filtration and disinfection system. The
filtered and disinfected water will supply an irrigation distribution pipeline
network for common area landscape and agricultural irrigation. The final
treated wastewater will be applied at agronomic rates for beneficial use to
maximize the reuse of the water as a resource and protect groundwater quality.
The wastewater collection and treatment system is depicted on the sewer system
plan.
System Diagram: The sewer system plan map, shows the conceptual layout of the
community sewer system.
The figure also shows the general area to be served with sewer as defined by
the estimated development envelopes. Therefore, the limits of areas served by
sewer may not be precisely concurrent with development areas shown in the
master land use plan map, which depicts the conceptual lot boundaries. (Ord.
325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord. 793, 12-7-2011)
   PDF_link_to_map_of_Sewer_System_Plan_here
   Fig. 3-F
8-21A-9-34: STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
General Description: The natural drainage flows are altered by development of
an area in three (3) basic ways. First, drainage patterns are redirected and
concentrated by grading and the construction of roads. Second, flows are
increased by the installation of more impervious surfaces than previously
existed. Finally, the quality of the water is impacted by the runoff from
pavement surfaces and fertilized landscaped areas. The storm drainage system
proposed for Hidden Springs will safely transport concentrated flows to
management facilities strategically located to filter nutrients and attenuate
increased flows.
The diagrammatic drainage plan depicts internal drainage shed boundaries and
possible locations of major management features.
Design Criteria: The design of drainage facilities associated with the Ada
County road system falls under the jurisdiction of the Ada County highway
district. The design of the drainage facilities for Hidden Springs is depicted
in the proposed road section designs.
Conveyance Systems: Redirection and concentration of drainage flows will
primarily be a result of construction of the road network serving the project.
A combination of rural and urban road sections are proposed, depending on the
development intensity of a particular area. In rural section areas, grassed
roadside swales will be the primary conveyance with culverts crossing at low
points and other critical locations. Curb and gutter will convey drainage to a
more formal storm sewer system of inlets and culverts in areas where urban road
sections are proposed. In each case, the conveyance systems will be designed to
deliver the storm water runoff to the management facilities while minimizing
erosion.
Management Facilities: The storm water management facilities will be the
primary drainage feature for mitigating the increased flows generated from
Hidden Springs. These features will range from level swales graded parallel to
the contour where flows are small to detention areas where higher densities
will create larger flows. Other examples of these facilities include seepage
trenches, dry wells and ponds. A number of site specific factors will effect
the type of facility chosen. Less dense development, as in the northeast
portion of the development, will generate lower flows requiring smaller
structures in local applications. More dense development areas will include
regional facilities for management due to higher anticipated flows and site
availability. Soils and slope conditions, proximity to existing drainageways
and size of the drainage area will also dictate the selection of facility.
These management facilities will serve a second purpose of water quality
management, which is discussed below.
Water Quality Management: The quality of storm water runoff has become one of
the most sensitive issues associated with land development. Residual materials
from pavement surfaces, excess nutrients from fertilized landscaped areas and
sediments carried with higher velocity flows contribute to the degradation of
surface water quality. A number of strategies will be employed at Hidden
Springs to minimize that degradation and to treat the water prior to discharge
to the natural drainageways. Other sections of this application address
management of landscaping. Relatively narrow road sections are being proposed
to minimize pavement areas while still providing safe travel ways. Rural road
sections are being emphasized to allow the treatment of runoff as close to the
source as possible, specifically in roadside grassed swales.
As previously discussed, all surface water runoff will be directed to
management facilities for the control of runoff quantities. Hydrologic studies
and management facilities will be updated and/or expanded as land use changes
occur. Detaining runoff in these facilities will also allow suspended sediments
and nutrients to settle. Between the source and these management facilities,
erosion and sediment control techniques will be utilized to "pretreat" the
runoff. Vegetated roadside and culvert discharge swales will provide nutrient
uptake. Small check dams will slow channel flow velocities. Riprapped aprons
will slow velocities and disperse concentrated flows from storm drainage
systems. The emphasis will be on keeping the concentration of flows to a
minimum and dispersing those concentrated flows in vegetated swales at every
opportunity. Not only does this promote nutrient uptake but it also promotes
infiltration and ground water recharge.
Surface water quality will be addressed both during and after construction of
development improvements. In addition to the methods previously discussed,
temporary features employed during construction will include silt fences,
strawbale barriers, siltation basins, sediment traps and other proven and
appropriate best management practices. The temporary mitigation program will
focus on limiting the area of disturbance and treating the surface water as
close to the source as possible. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-
1999)
   PDF_link_to_"Drainage_Plan"_map_here
   Fig. 3-G
8-21A-9-35: SHERIFF, FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES:
Sheriff: Police protection will be provided to the residents of Hidden Springs
through the Ada County sheriff's office. All services and operations of the
office will be coordinated through the main office at the city/county law
enforcement building. It is anticipated that services for Hidden Springs will
be through an agreement that is similar to the contract with the city of Eagle.
The office will be encouraged to provide a sheriff station outpost at the fire
station described below.
Fire Services: Fire services will be provided by north Ada fire and rescue
district. The district will operate out of the fire station presently under
construction in the village center.
Emergency Medical Services: Emergency medical services will be provided by aid
units from Ada County. The closest station to Hidden Springs is at the
headquarters station, adjacent to the north Ada fire and rescue district
headquarters. This facility will adequately serve the community without the
need for additional facilities. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999;
amd. Ord. 902, 10-2-2019)
8-21A-9-36: LANDSCAPE STRATEGY:
   The landscape of Hidden Springs is intended to knit the natural and cultural
themes of the community together through careful layout, planning and design.
The goal of the landscape strategy will be to establish an impression of Hidden
Springs that is both visually appealing and cohesive as well as being a
successful living environment. This will project a positive and active
character for the community that emphasizes its opportunities, its facilities
and the vitality of its residents.
Objectives: Five key objectives that provide a framework for implementing the
functional, aesthetic and technical parameters of the landscape are as follows:
   •   Develop a rural theme that builds upon the character, location,
traditions, history and self- sufficiency of Hidden Springs. Utilize
traditional landscape elements such as hedgerows, windrows, orchards, groves,
grasslands and cultivated land as functioning components within the community.
This will reinforce the theme while providing the foundation for phased
implementation or sequencing of the project.
   •   Create an environment that is harmonious with the regional climatic
conditions. This will be achieved through careful selection of plant materials
that express the desired aesthetic qualities while meeting the maintenance and
durability requirements of the project. A general list of plants that meet
these criteria is included in Section 8-21A-9-42 of this Article.
   •   Exercise prudent use of water resources by implementing water
conservation measures in the landscape. This will include implementing the
principles of xeriscaping; setting limits on landscaped and irrigated areas
within common areas and residential lots; and utilizing high- efficiency, low-
volume irrigation systems.
   •   Establish a clear and logical orientation to the neighborhoods, and open
space areas within Hidden Springs. Providing a sense of entry, a sense of place
and a sense of community by understanding the needs in each zone is a critical
landscape planning and design factor. These areas can be characterized as
outlined below.
Entries: At Seaman's Gulch and Dry Creek Roads to the west and Dry Creek Road
to the east, entries to the community will be characterized by open, country
roads lined with native grasses punctuated by select plantings of deciduous
tree groves that will reinforce these as community gateways.
Riparian Areas: The Dry Creek, Currant Creek and McFarland Creek corridors will
be characterized by naturalistic placement of trees and shrubs that will
enhance and replicate the existing riparian environment while providing
wildlife habitat.
Agricultural Areas: Within the Dry Creek Valley and Seaman's Gulch Road area
cultivated croplands with orchards, windrows and hedgerows will be
reestablished.
Rural Residential Neighborhoods: Irrigated landscape envelopes will contrast
with enhanced native shrubs and grasses outside those envelopes.
Preserves: Open grasslands with scattered native scrub and tree cover. These
areas will remain in their natural state and will be selectively enhanced as
appropriate to the land and wildlife management parameters of the project.
Town: Traditional street trees in planting strips and medians with front and
rear yard domestic gardens in the residential and commercial lots.
   •   Provide for ongoing maintenance and management of the common area
landscape through the homeowners' association, CC and R's, and coordination
with ACHD for road and right of way maintenance.
   •   A list of approved species will be developed specific to the Hidden
Springs site that reflects water conservation and wildfire strategies and will
be a component of the design guidelines. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-9-37: ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES AND ANTICIPATED FINANCING PLAN:
Introduction:   The Planned Community District regulations anticipate that a
planned community will be developed in phases over time. (See Section
8-21A-9-22 of this Article.) The regulations require that each phase of
development include sufficient essential public services to serve the
anticipated population of that phase and to provide for integration of such
services into the planned community. This Section describes the phasing of
improvements, estimated costs of the essential public services of each phase
and the alternative methods of financing the costs of installing and
maintaining these essential public services as well as mitigating material
negative economic impacts of the community.
As described in the Phasing Plan, the first phase of development will feature a
mix of unit types within the areas south of Dry Creek. Subsequent development
will occur in the balance of the project south and north of Dry Creek.
The first phase of development has been identified and will include a total of
80–162 residential units. It is anticipated that this phase would include a
mixture of the following lot types: farm/ranch lots, rural lots, large lots,
regular lots, village homes, and town homes.
Sufficient infrastructure, including essential public services, will be
developed initially to support this phase of development. Subsequent
development will occur together with the necessary infrastructure, at a pace
and within site areas in response to market conditions and the need to have an
integrated community at the completion of each phase. For purposes of this
Section, the financing plan is considered for the first phase and the
combination of all subsequent phases.
The remainder of this section considers each of the essential public services.
Roads And Streets:   The proposed roads and circulation plan includes several
categories of improvements:
   •   Project Improvements: Representing the rural collector roads which
provide the primary access and circulation within the project.
   •   Residential Site Improvements: Which provide the secondary roads within
the individual project areas.
The street improvements associated with the first phase will include:
   •   Project Improvements: The realignment, widening, and paving of Dry Creek
Road, and Seaman's Gulch Road as realigned within the site area. However the
existing alignment of Dry Creek Road will remain in its present condition and
location.
   •   Residential Site Improvements: The construction of rural residential
local and secondary roads as necessary to serve first phase developments.
Anticipated Costs
The projected costs of these improvements are estimated to be:
 
                  Phase I       Later Phases  Total
Project cost      $ 336,400.00  $ 900,000.00  $1,236,400.00
Residential sites 1,051,000.00  7,947,860.00  8,998,860.00
Total             $1,387,400.00 $8,847,860.00 $10,235,260.00
 
The project and residential site improvements will be dedicated to ACHD.
Impact fees assessed on the project are estimated to be $3,737,901.00 as
follows:
Development Type Units Assumed Category Impact Fees/Unit      Total Fee
                                        Regular Extraordinary
Development Type Units  Assumed Category Impact Fees/Unit        Total Fee
                                         Regular   Extraordinary
Farm/ranch lot   30     Single-          $1,039.00 $2,589.00     $108,840.00
                        family>1,500 sf
Rural            20     Single-          1,039.00  2,589.00      72,560.00
                        family>1,500 sf
Large lot        205    Single-          1,039.00  2,589.00      743,740.00
                        family>1,500 sf
Regular lot      483    Single-          1,039.00  2,589.00      1,752,324.00
                        family>1,500 sf
Village home     162    Single-          802.00    2,589.00      549,342.00
                        family>1,500 sf
Town home        135    Multi-family     734.00    2,589.00      448,605.00
Commercial       30,000 Mixed commercial 2,083.00/               62,490.00
                                         1,000
                                                                 $3,737,901.00
 
*From Road Impact Fee Schedule - Far Rural.
These fees will be applied to capital improvements as per the "Extraordinary
Impact Fee Agreement" of August 19, 1998 between ACHD and Hidden Springs.
Mechanism For Initiating And Maintaining Each Phase
As approved by ACHD in the subdivision improvement agreement, each phase will
include sufficient improvements to serve the new lots. These improvements will
include the necessary project level road improvements.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
No adverse economic impacts were identified for the highway district as a
result of this project.
Water System:   Phasing Of Improvements
The proposed water system plan includes two (2) categories of improvements:
supply/storage and distribution (see water supply and water system sections
8-21A-9-29 and
8-21A-9-30 of this article for complete description of water supply and system
alternatives).
The water distribution system will include water for domestic use as well as
water for fire protection. These facilities can be extended incrementally as
roads are built and lots developed.
Cost
The projected costs of these improvements are estimated to be:
 
                  Phase I       Later Phases  Total
Project cost      $ 224,000.00  $ 84,000.00   $ 308,000.00
Residential sites 787,000.00    5,815,235.00  6,602,235.00
Total             $1,011,000.00 $5,899,235.00 $6,910,235.00
 
Mechanism For Initiating And Maintaining Each Phase
The initial phase of development is planned to include all improvements
necessary to provide service.
The subsequent phases will respond to market conditions. Plans for each
subsequent phase will include sufficient improvements to serve the new lots.
These improvements will include the necessary reservoirs and distribution
system.
The operator of the water system is United Water Company, which is responsible
for all operation and maintenance.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
Fees for service will be set to cover operating costs, fund depreciation and
provide a return on investment, consistent with regulations set by the Idaho
public utilities commission.
Sewer System:   Phasing Of Improvements
The proposed wastewater treatment plan calls for a community wastewater
collection and treatment system based on an aerated lagoon biological treatment
system with a treated wastewater storage impoundment. On some lots larger than
two and one-half (2.5) acres, individual septic tanks will be used. The first
system would be developed as part of the first phase.
Cost And Financing
The projected costs of the improvements are estimated to be:
 
                  Phase I       Later Phases  Total
Project cost      $ 500,000.00  $ 667,213.00  $ 1,167,213.00
Residential sites 553,000.00    2,006,021.00  2,559,021.00
Total             $1,053,000.00 $2,673,234.00 $3,726,234.00
 
The cost of individual septic tanks for large lots is not included here, but
will be a cost to home builders.
Mechanism For Initiating And Maintaining Each Phase
The initial phase of development is planned to include all improvements
necessary to provide service. The subsequent phases will respond to market
conditions. Plans for each subsequent phase will include sufficient
improvements to serve the new lots. These improvements will include the
necessary community collection and treatment systems.
The Hidden Springs sewer company will operate and maintain the wastewater
treatment system.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
Fees for service will be set to cover operating costs and fund depreciation,
and there should not be any adverse financial impact.
Utilities:   Utilities include power, telephone, cable TV and natural gas.
These services must be extended to and throughout the development and will be
located beneath or adjacent to streets and roads as were depicted in the roads
and circulation plan map. These extensions will occur as development proceeds.
The portion of the cost to be borne by the project is estimated to be:
 
Phase I     Subsequent Phases Total
$184,000.00 $1,318,000.00     $1,502,000.00
 
The cost of these improvements will be funded privately by the developer and
potentially by capital investments by utility providers.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
Fees for service will be set to cover operating costs, fund depreciation and
provide a return on investment, consistent with regulations set by the Idaho
public utilities commission.
Landscape And Trails:   The trails/open space plan and landscaping plan include
a variety of landscape features and recreational amenities: a greenbelt,
pedestrian easements, trails, an equestrian center, preserve areas, a community
center with recreational fields, and a community park.
The cost of the landscape, trail and recreational improvements are estimated to
be:
 
           Phase I     Later Phases  Total
Landscape  $214,000.00 $ 958,000.00  $1,172,000.00
Trails     156,000.00  168,000.00    324,000.00
Recreation 20,000.00   600,000.00    620,000.00
Total      $390,000.00 $1,726,000.00 $2,116,000.00
 
These facilities will serve both residents of the community as well as other
citizens of the county and elsewhere.
Maintenance of the open space and recreation features are anticipated to be
provided by the community association or the developer. The improvements would
be held in common ownership and maintenance would be funded by community
association fees. Alternatively, some or all of these amenities could be
conveyed to the county parks department or some public or quasi-public entity
upon completion.
Mechanism For Initiating And Maintaining Each Phase
Landscape and recreational features will be developed in phases along with the
other infrastructure items. The features developed in each phase are created to
assure the marketability of the project. The additional membership of
homeowners as development proceeds, will provide additional community
association resources to maintain the facilities.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
There are no adverse economic impacts identified for providers of these public
services.
Schools:   The economic impact analysis included in this application considers
the school facility needs associated with the community. The development would
require the following portion of the capacity of the indicated prototype school
facilities:
 
            Phase I Subsequent Phases Total
Elementary  6.2%    34.1%             40.3%
Junior high 1.9%    10.7%             12.6%
High        1.0%    4.2%              5.2%
 
Initially, the students can be bussed to existing schools.
The Boise School District estimates the cost of a prototype facility to be
approximately:
 
Elementary  $6 million
Junior high $16 million
High school $25 million
 
Accordingly, the cost attributable to enrollment for the development at build-
out would thus be:
 
Elementary  $2.4 million
Junior high $2.0 million
High school $1.3 million
 
The district has recently constructed a new elementary school (Bogart Lane) and
junior high (Gary Lane) which will in part service the Hidden Springs area. The
district will likely require additional sites as growth continues in this
general area. A school site will continue to be made available to the district.
The cost of new schools is typically funded by bond issues. However, with the
development of the community, the new homeowners will share in paying off
unfunded capital costs (outstanding bonds issued to construct existing school
facilities) as well as the capital costs of additional facilities constructed
in the district.
Mechanism For Initiating And Maintaining Each Phase
As noted, the district has recently constructed new schools in the general area
of the project. This is an outcome of a recent successful bond election.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
As presented in the economic impact analysis, the lag in collection of property
tax would result in required expenditures exceeding revenues in the first year
after homes are sold in phase I. However, the surplus in the second year would
offset that deficit, and surpluses would exceed expenditures in every year
thereafter.
Fire District:   It is estimated that Hidden Springs (including the 1999
annexation of 120 acres reduced to 97 acres due to the transfer of 23 acres to
Cartwright Ranch planned community in 2007) would require thirty five percent
(35%) to forty percent (40%) of the service capacity of a new fire station.
Such a station would also serve the growing population outside Hidden Springs.
A new fire station is presently being constructed in Hidden Springs. The
station will be operated by the north Ada County fire and rescue district
(NACF&R)
Cost And Financing Of Improvements:
A new fire station is estimated by the district to cost:
 
Building  $612,180.00
Equipment 337,000.00
         $949,180.00
 
Mechanism For Initiating And Maintaining Each Phase:
As per the agreement between Hidden Springs community LLC and north Ada County
fire and rescue, fifty percent (50%) of the tax revenue collected by NACF&R
from the development area will be used to pay back Hidden Springs for the
construction of the new station.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts:
The economic impact analysis concluded that there would be no adverse impacts
related to the development.
Other Jurisdictions:   The economic impact analysis did not identify any other
capital facility needs. Further, there were no adverse impacts from operation
other than a shortfall to the county in the first year after homes are sold,
because of the lag in recognizing increases in assessed valuation. However,
services could be provided at adequate levels within the revenues available in
that year.
Financing Plan:   The costs of the essential public services necessary for the
community and the additional amenities discussed above will be provided either
by the developer of the project or from a local improvement district (LID) or
other governmental or quasi-governmental agency formed for the specific purpose
of providing such financing.
With respect to an LID or other governmental or quasi-governmental agencies, as
a potential source of financing for a variety of improvements, including public
roads and streets, sewer, water, landscaping, trails and other community
facilities "The governing body of any municipality has the power to make or
cause to be made any one or more of the following improvements. [Excerpts only]
   1)   To establish grades and layout, establish, open, extend and widen any
street, sidewalk, alley or off street parking facility;
   2)   To construct, improve, repair, light, grade, pave, repave, surface,
resurface, curb, gutter, sewer, drain, landscape and beautify any street,
sidewalk or alley;
   5)   To plant, or cause to be planted, set out, cultivate and maintain
lawns, shade trees or other landscaping;
   8)   To acquire, construct, reconstruct, extend, maintain or repair parks
and other recreational facilities; ..."
Under an LID, bonds would be issued to finance improvements with bonds repaid
through assessments on the Hidden Springs property. The developer would be
responsible for assessments on each parcel until it is sold to a homebuilder
and ultimately a homeowner.
A local improvement district could be formed by Ada County, the Ada County
highway district or other applicable governmental entity with the approval of
sixty percent (60%) of property owners (in this case the developer). Bonds are
issued, secured by the development parcels. If the developer or subsequent
homebuilder or homeowner fails to pay assessments, the local improvement
district forecloses on the property. The risk of adverse impact on the issuing
agency because of foreclosure is reduced in three (3) ways:
   •   By statute, the value of the assessment cannot exceed the value of the
real property including improvements. There should be adequate value received
in the event of foreclosure.
   •   As a practical matter, the value of the property should greatly exceed
the assessment.
   •   A guarantee fund can be set up, funded by a bond process to provide
monies to make bond payments.
In summary, an LID or LIDs may be used to fund some of the essential public
services and other amenities. As noted earlier, whether such improvements are
financed privately by the developer or through an LID, the costs of the
improvements are borne by current and future property owners.
Financial Assurances:   The applicant, Grossman Family Properties, is an
affiliate of Grossman Company Properties, one of the premier developers in the
western United States. Founded in 1964 by Sam Grossman, a twenty five (25) year
resident of Idaho, Grossman Company Properties has been involved in the
acquisition, development and management of shopping centers, hotels, mixed use
developments, residential and mobile home communities, as well as agricultural
and land development projects throughout the west for over thirty two (32)
years.
Grossman Company Properties is also one of the financially healthiest and most
active developers in the country. Current development projects include the
recently completed thirty three million dollar ($33,000,000.00) renovation of
the Arizona Biltmore hotel and resort in Phoenix, Arizona. With over one
hundred fifty five (155) employees and offices in Phoenix, Arizona, and Boise,
Idaho, Grossman Company Properties is one of the most experienced and
successful developers in the west.
As part of the application for each plat of Hidden Springs, a detailed outline
of anticipated construction costs and operating and maintenance budgets will be
submitted. The plat application will also identify specific responsibilities
and appropriate assurances for financing of improvements and ongoing
maintenance and operation of essential public services. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997;
amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord. 697, 8-26-2008)
8-21A-9-38: ZONING MAP:
The official zoning map is on file with the Ada County development services
department. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999)
8-21A-9-39: HIDDEN SPRINGS LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
The Hidden Springs planned community legal description is as set forth in Ada
County ordinance 705. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997; amd. Ord. 377, 7-28-1999; amd. Ord.
697, 8-26-2008)
8-21A-10: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
8-21A-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT STATEMENT:
Overall Purpose/Intent: The following guidelines illustrate the general level
of design and development control which Hidden Springs intends to apply to
development of the residential and nonresidential parcels within the overall
project. A design review committee (DRC) will be set up to review site plans,
architecture and landscape designs in Hidden Springs. The DRC reserves the
right to modify these standards to be more restrictive or different in design
character, as long as general project intent and theme is maintained. DRC
responsibilities will include the review of building plans, elevations,
materials, colors, fencing, signage, lighting, landscaping and parking
arrangements prior to permit application to Ada County.
Specific responsibilities and standards will be further defined in the
Declaration of Protective Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&Rs) which
will also serve to control development at Hidden Springs. The DRC shall have
sole authority in determining compliance with the CC&Rs and design guidelines.
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-10-2: ARCHITECTURE:
Hidden Springs is not intended to be developed with one prevalent architectural
style. Variety in the architecture is encouraged. An emphasis, however, will be
placed on indigenous architectural styles, the use of quality materials and
complementary relationships between building and site design features.
   1.   Building scale and height should relate to topography, lot sizes and
setbacks. A mix of one and two (2) story units in the rural residential
neighborhoods will be encouraged. Custom homes on slope sensitive lots should
use hillside adaptive design techniques such as post and beam construction and
daylight basements to minimize streetside and rear yard facade exposure.
Building heights in village and town home residential neighborhoods and
nonresidential uses may be taller but should have a massing and scale
compatible with adjoining residential uses.
   2.   The visual bulk of hillside residential development should be reduced
so structures do not stand out prominently when seen from a distance. Building
form should conform to site topography, and not overshadow natural site
features. Step structures with slope, and cut into hillsides should be utilized
to reduce visual bulk.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2274.png]
 
   3.   Building height should be minimized on highly visible ridge areas by
avoiding multi-story houses that "skyline" on ridges and by locating
residential buildings so as not to impact views near ridges.
   4.   A mix of housing styles and types is encouraged. No adjacent single-
family detached home will be permitted to have the same plan, elevation or
color. Variety in elevations and materials is essential.
   5.   Homes on farm/ranch, rural and large lots shall have side or rear-entry
garages (garage doors not directly facing the street). Homes on village lots
shall provide rear-entry garages where access is provided.
   6.   Private exterior living spaces such as porches, decks and patios are
encouraged in the design of each unit in the village and town home
neighborhoods.
   7.   Roof pitch variations are preferred. No flat roofs or rock covered
roofs are permitted. Tile, concrete tile, architectural grade composition
shingle or other materials approved by the DRC are permitted. Wood shake roofs
are prohibited.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2276.png]
 
   8.   Passive solar designs, energy and water conservation measures are
encouraged.
   9.   Building materials and color schemes should blend with the natural
landscape of earth tones and grassland vegetation but minimize fuel potential
for wildfires. The use or incorporation of fire resistant or treated wood,
stone, and/or brick on exteriors is encouraged. Material changes, fenestration
changes and variations of wall and window surface planes are also encouraged.
In order to avoid the appearance of a false applique, no material changes shall
be allowed on corners or where structures abut common areas. If material
changes occur, they must occur at logical changes in building form.
   10.   Windows shall be sensitively placed to protect privacy of adjacent
residences.
   11.   View corridors are critical to and from all open spaces. The siting of
buildings, accessory structures, fences, etc., and their impact on views and
adjacent uses shall be carefully considered.
   12.   Mechanical equipment on roofs, aboveground transformers, satellite
dishes, active solar panels, utility equipment and loading, service and storage
areas shall be screened from view from the streets, pathways, public areas and
adjacent uses. Trash enclosures and maintenance structures shall be designed to
be compatible in style, materials and colors with the main building and shall
be of masonry type construction. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-10-3: SITE DESIGN:
   Parcel developers, builders and lot owners will be encouraged to use
innovative and environmentally responsive techniques in designing the final
configuration of lots, buildings, roadways, drives, etc. These techniques
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   1.   Minimize development intensity in the highly visible valley floor and
concentrate development in more hidden valley coves.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2278.png]
 
   2.   Minimize development on highly visible hillside slopes. Keep
development predominantly at the top and base of slopes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2280.png]
 
   3.   Cluster buildings to maximize contiguous open space and minimize
disruption to native vegetation.
   4.   Tuck buildings into topographic folds and site ridge-top units in
saddles to minimize "skylining".
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2282.png]
 
   5.   Offset and stagger building envelopes on rural residential lots to
permit views between units and prevent the formation of a uniform wall of
building faces.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2284.png]
 
   6.   On village and town home lots, buildings should align on build-to
setback line to create a uniform edge to the town center streets.
   7.   Keep views at the terminus of roadway intersections open to amenities,
open space and creek beds.
   8.   Avoid steep slopes (>25%) and soils with poor bearing capacities.
   9.   Site buildings to capitalize on passive cooling/heating. (Ord. 325, 3-
12-1997)
8-21A-10-4: SITE GRADING AND DRAINAGE:
Introduction: Lots in the residential neighborhoods will be individually graded
in a site sensitive manner to reduce impacts. Cut and fill slopes along
roadways will be carefully designed to minimize visual impacts. Grading and
revegetation guidelines are outlined below and shall comply with Ada County and
central Health Department requirements. Grading and drainage should be kept to
a minimum and should be performed in a way that respects significant natural
features and visually blends with existing topography. Carefully analyze
existing soil and naturally occurring drainage patterns prior to development to
minimize grading and its impact on the overall drainage basin. Detailed
geotechnical and hydrological reports may be required prior to grading
activities.
Guidelines:
   1.   All disturbed areas shall be revegetated or restored, with proper
erosion and dust control methods. Stockpiling, erosion and loss of topsoil
shall be minimized.
   2.   Revegetation shall be done as soon as possible after finish grading has
been completed, usually in early Spring or in the early Fall.
   3.   Topsoil that is removed shall be centrally located with respect to
construction phasing. The stockpile may also be protected by seeding, watering,
mulching or covering.
   4.   All grading shall follow Ada County requirements. Slopes of 3:1 or less
are preferred with overall finish grades blending with natural land forms to
the greatest extent possible. Slopes greater than 3:1 shall be stabilized
through such means as terracing or planting. Custom retaining walls and
landscaping must be used to screen cut and fill areas. Minimize grading on
slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%). Soften slope banks through use
of contoured grading at toe and top of slope. Provide rounded transitions and
variable slope gradients. Avoid rounded long slopes with sharp transitions.
   5.   Individual site sensitive grading, as well as appropriate hillside
adaptive construction, shall be provided on hillside lots, and shall be
reviewed and approved by the DRC.
   6.   Detention basins, silt drains and fences and temporary revegetation
should be used in conjunction with other earthwork operations for sediment and
drainage control during construction.
   7.   Avoid construction in areas with unstable soils that may require costly
construction and greater impacts to natural conditions. Provide erosion control
measures on cut and fill slopes, and on highly permeable soils. Locate
individual septic systems carefully to avoid ground water impacts.
   8.   Use naturally occurring drainage patterns to avoid increased runoff and
potential erosion problems. Use grass swale and detention ponds for gradual
release and ground water recharge.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2286.png]
 
   9.   Encourage split-level building to minimize grading and complement
natural slope.
   10.   A graded slope that exceeds thirty three percent (33%) or eight feet
(8') in height shall have special slope treatment and or retaining walls that
stabilize the slope and minimize scarring. Minimize tall visible retaining wall
structures by stepping with grade. Use natural materials (stone, wood, etc.)
and natural colors for retaining walls wherever practical. (Ord. 325, 3-12-
1997)
8-21A-10-5: LANDSCAPE DESIGN:
Introduction: The landscape, both existing and proposed, is an integral element
of the rural character at Hidden Springs. The preservation and enhancement of
traditional landscape elements, such as hedgerows, agricultural fields, tree
groves, and treelined stream corridors, are critical to maintaining the rural
character of Dry Creek Valley. Additional landscaping should be added to
enhance the aesthetic quality of the community and serve a wide variety of
functions, including glare reduction, visual screening, wind buffer, spatial
definition, highlighting architecture, guiding circulation, and creating
wildlife habitat.
Landscaping within Hidden Springs shall integrate resource efficient design
measures and environmentally compatible plants to ensure drought-resistant and
water-conserving vegetation is an integral part of the design. All landscaping
within the project should be provided in accordance with the requirements
identified in the Hidden Springs Specific Plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2288.png]
 
Guidelines: 1. Colors and textures of plant material should be consistent
within the overall project common areas yet vary within the individual
residential clusters or parcels in order to create unity in the common areas
and variety in the individual parcels.
   2.   The ultimate mature size of plants will be evaluated on maintenance,
life span and functional requirements. In areas where screening is needed,
plants should be selected upon their form and branching density.
   3.   A series of linear rows of trees, or "hedgerows", should be planted in
the valley floor to help maintain the site's rural character and break down the
scale of the residential villages.
   4.   Street trees of significant size should be planted in the Village
Center to shade sidewalks, parking and roadway, and to minimize reflected solar
heat.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2290.png]
 
   5.   All plant materials should be evaluated in terms of how well they
enhance the architecture, existing plant material, enclose spaces and link
various activities within Hidden Springs.
   6.   Climate influences should be considered in order to get maximum gain
out of plant material. Deciduous plants along the south side and west side of
buildings will be recommended since they provide summer shade while allowing
winter sun to enter the building. Special consideration shall be given to trees
with tap roots and/or noninvasive root growth.
   7.   Plants selected should be grouped/zoned according to water consumption
rates and soil requirements. To aid in water conservation, plantings should be
confined to planting beds. The use of mulches at appropriate depths shall also
be encouraged.
   8.   Plants which require little maintenance should be favored over those
which require constant spraying and pruning. Special attention shall be given
to appropriate plant spacings, as this will reduce unwarranted pruning.
   9.   Plant life cycle should be considered with plant materials. An
appropriate mix of slow, medium and fast growth rates shall be encouraged. The
result of a proper mix will be a long living, increased drought tolerant and
disease resistant stand of vegetation.
   10.   Proper turf management aids in soil erosion control, dust
stabilization, temperature moderation and high ground water recharge. The type
and selection of turf areas should be selected in the same manner as all other
plantings. When seeding or sodding a new lawn, the best management practices
appropriate for the Treasure Valley and this specific property should be
utilized. When hydromulching, the grass seed should be mixed into a slurry of
water and cellulose and sprayed into the seed bed so that seed, mulch and even
a permanganate fertilizer can be applied in one step.
   11.   Irrigation is critical for healthy plant material, with deep watering
the best way to apply water. This promotes deeper roots which are not as
susceptible to drought.
All permanent systems are to be below ground and fully automatic. Use of water
conserving systems including, but not limited to, drip irrigation and moisture
sensors is strongly encouraged. Irrigation heads, where used, are to be
adjusted to minimize runoff. All irrigation heads adjacent to paved areas,
curbs and turf shall be of pop-up type.
Backflow control devices are to be located so as to minimize their adverse
visual impact. In addition, such control devices shall be screened by shrubs.
   12.   Undeveloped lots or portions of lots outside the building envelope
should not be irrigated or ornamentally landscaped. These areas should,
however, be enhanced with native, drought- resistant shrubs, grasses and
wildflowers to minimize weed growth and erosion.
   13.   Preserve mature trees, hedgerows, and wood lots, and incorporate as
design elements of proposed developments.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2292.png]
 
   14.   Utilize open space and landscape buffers to transition from differing
land uses, for example farm and rural lots to town center.
   15.   Encourage buffers between conflicting uses in the Village Center areas
(residential vs. commercial), and on farm lots (agricultural practices vs.
residential). Planting buffers should screen all off-street parking areas to
the maximum extent practical.
   16.   Avoid plantings that obstruct sightlines at intersections, and
obstruct access to utility equipment.
   17.   Provide transition areas with low fuel volume plants where high fire
hazard areas occur, (adjacent to undeveloped valley, grasslands, wooded
hillsides).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2294.png]
 
   18.   Require all new landscaping material to be drought tolerant, native
and from a list of less palatable and nonpalatable (to wildlife) plant species.
   19.   Encourage replanting of wildlife food species and plant species which
enhance critical habitat for wildlife.
   20.   Prohibit the installation and require the complete removal of noxious
plants and weeds within the development envelope.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2296.png]
 
Approved Plant List
Botanical Name Common Name
Approved Plant List
Botanical Name          Common Name
Trees
Acer grandidentatum     Rocky Mountain Maple
Alnus sinuata           Sitka Alder
Amelanchier alnifolia   Serviceberry
Celtis occidentalis     Hackberry
Crataeugus sp.          Hawthorn
Gleditsia triacanthos   Honey Locust
Populus sp.             Poplar
Pyrus calleryana        Bradford Pear
Rhus typhina            Sumac
Shrubs/Groundgovers
Artemesia tridentata    Big Sage
Atriplex canescens      Fourwing Saltbrush
Caragana arborescens    Siberian Pea Shrub
Cercocarpus montanus    Mountain Mohogany
Chaenomeles sp.         Quince
Chrysothamnus nauseosus Rubber Rabbitbush
Cornus stolonifera      Asanti Dogwood
Cornus stolonifera      Redtwig Dogwood
"Bailey"
Cornus stolonifera      Shrub Dogwood
(Kelsey Dwarf)
Elaegnus angustifolia   Russian Olive
Mahonia repens          Creeping Oregon grape
Physocarpus opulifolius Ninebark
Philadelphus lewisii    Syringa
Potentilla sp.          Cinquefoil
Prunus sp.              Spiraea
Rhus trilobata          Oakbrush Sumac
Ribes sp.               Current
Rosa woodsii            Woods Rose
Salix exigua            Sandbar Willow
Symphoricarpos albus    Snowberry
 
(Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-10-6: SIGNAGE:
Introduction:   The signage and graphics program within Hidden Springs will
follow the overall "ranch" theme of the project. Signage will further reinforce
design concepts and provide identification for the residential areas and
nonresidential uses. Signage will also be provided for traffic control, along
pathways and for public information purposes. In all cases, signs will be kept
simple to reduce, not contribute to visual clutter.
Signage throughout the project shall be consistent and compatible. Sizes,
styles and configurations will vary depending on the specific purpose, activity
level and building materials.
Guidelines:   1. General:
         a.   Lighting and landscaping shall be considered an integral part of
all signage proposals.
         b.   Regardless of style, signs constructed of brick, concrete, wood,
stucco, stone and other natural materials with painted or relief cut letters
are encouraged.
         c.   Prohibited signs shall include:
            •   Signs which constitute a hazard to traffic of pedestrians;
            •   Signs located within any stream or drainage channel;
            •   Mobile signs or portable signs; balloons, flags or kite style
signs;
            •   Inflatable signs;
            •   Signs which produce odor, sound, smoke, flame or other
emissions;
            •   Signs which imitate or simulate official signs, or which use
yellow or red blinking or intermittent lights resembling danger or warning
signals;
            •   Signs using strobe lights or individual light bulbs exceeding
75 watts;
            •   Signs on public property or right of way or signs attached to
utility poles, street lights, fences, barns, sheds, or other similar
structures; and
            •   Roof signs and billboards.
         d.   Free-standing signs should be in proportion/scale to surrounding
elements. Emphasis should be placed on sizing signs in relationship to the
vehicular vs. pedestrian traffic they serve. Sign faces should only be large
enough to accommodate the minimum typeface size and quantity needed to convey
the intended message.
      2.   Residential Signage:
Identification signs will be provided at project entrances as part of the
overall entry statement to Hidden Springs. Each residential area may have its
own entry statement and signage theme or color combinations.
Monument signs, piers, walls, freestanding monolith/pylons shall be used.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2298.png]
 
Project or residential identification signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in
height or one hundred twenty (120) square feet in area and may be provided on
each side of an entrance street. Lighting of residential entrance
identification signs shall be indirect, with screened wall or ground-mounted
light sources.
      3.   Commercial Signage:
Commercial signage shall be kept small and subdued to respect the residential
character of the community. Commercial establishments shall have a maximum of
one identification sign either hung directly on the front facade of the
structure from a porch column or roof, or on a post at the entry wall.
Commercial signs shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet in area on
facades and twenty four feet (24') if hung from a freestanding post.
      4.   Special purpose signs:
         a.   Directional, informational and regulatory signs shall not exceed
six feet (6') in height or sixteen (16) square feet in area and shall be
compatible throughout the project.
         b.   Temporary signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height and
twenty four (24) square feet in area. The location and number of temporary
signs shall be subject to approval by the DRC.
         c.   Political signs are permitted to be displayed only on private
property and only two (2) weeks prior to an election. They must be removed
twenty four (24) hours after the election. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-10-7: LIGHTING:
Introduction:   Lighting in the Hidden Springs community should serve different
purposes in the Village Center and rural/residential areas. In the Village
Center, small scale intimate lighting for streets, sidewalks, building entries
and residential lots is encouraged. In rural residential and along rural roads,
lighting should be minimized to reduce light pollution in the community. Main
intersections should be lighted for safety purposes only. Lighting shall be
functional and efficient, while keeping with the design themes of Hidden
Springs. Lighting will vary from larger scale illumination of major roadways to
intimate lighting of pathways, building entries or residential lots. In
general, to reduce light pollution in the development, overall lighting shall
be minimized. Lighting guidelines are outlined below.
Guidelines:   All lighting shall be in accordance with the Hidden Springs
Zoning Ordinance and subject to approval by the DRC.
   1.   Fixtures will be of a scale consistent with use.
   2.   Light fixture style, type and color shall be consistent and compatible
throughout the project. The style of light standards along public streets shall
be subject to the approval of Ada County and ACHD.
   3.   In all cases, lighting shall not extend beyond its tasks. Cut-off
fixtures shall be used as appropriate.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2300.png]
   4.   Illumination levels shall not be in excess of what is required.
Lighting design shall address specific functions of activity areas. Site
lighting shall be indirect in character.
   5.   If lighting for signage is provided, it shall relate to signage and
graphics and shall heighten the visibility and appearance of signage.
   6.   Lighting fixtures shall be located so as to minimize shadows and
interference.
   7.   Spillover lighting shall not be permitted. Lighting shall reflect away
from adjoining properties.
   8.   Energy consumption shall be considered in determining lighting
fixtures.
   9.   Light fixtures and sizes should match architectural style of buildings
and be proportional to them.
   10.   Illumination levels should not exceed minimum required levels for its
purpose. Design should address specific activities to be lighted.
   11.   Use of low wattage high life lighting products is encouraged. Use of
photo voltaic or other renewable energy sources should be explored. (Ord. 325,
3-12-1997)
8-21A-10-8: FENCES AND WALLS:
Introduction:   Fencing will be used for safety and security purposes, to
control pets, enhance area themes, delineate uses and for screening. All
fencing shall be approved by the DRC.
   1.   A consistent fencing theme will be required throughout each individual
residential area at Hidden Springs.
Guidelines:   1.Fencing on farm/ranch and rural lots shall be located within
the building envelope. Additional perimeter fencing may be permitted in
conjunction with agricultural practices. (See subsection
8-21A-5C2 of this Article.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc6369b657622fd861ab6faf2f8bafee43d871dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2302.png]
 
   2.   Fencing on large lots shall be located within the building envelope
without exception.
   3.   Village and town homes are encouraged to have perimeter fencing located
on the perimeter lot lines.
   4.   Fencing within front yards shall be limited to low (maximum 42 inch
height) picket and rail style fencing, walls, hedges, etc. Taller, more opaque
fencing should be used in rear and side yards where screening is important.
Taller, more opaque rear and side yard fencing should terminate into the
sidewalls of residence at least five feet (5') behind front/streetside facade.
   5.   Adequate site distances shall be maintained along roadways and
intersections per Ada County codes and ordinances. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
8-21A-10-9: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION:
   1.   The clustering of buildings and related landscape is encouraged to
maximize contiguous open space.
   2.   Fencing across critical migration corridors will be limited to a
maximum height and minimum kickspace as recommended by Idaho Fish and Game. If
barbed wire fencing is used, the bottom wire shall be smooth.
   3.   All new landscape material on lots outside building envelopes will be
required to be drought tolerant, native and from a list of less palatable or
nonpalatable plant species.
   4.   Replanting of wildlife food species and plant species which enhance
critical habitat is encouraged.
   5.   The installation of noxious plants and weeds within the designated
development envelope is prohibited by the builder or home owner, and existing
materials must be removed.
   6.   Builders are required to employ "best practices" grading techniques
including incremental phasing/reparation, dust controls, grading limit fencing,
etc.
   7.   Modifications to natural drainageways are limited to those which are
absolutely necessary or those which increase the effectiveness of the
drainageway in carrying storm water and accommodating wildlife.
   8.   Exposed dumping and composting is prohibited (covered composting is
permitted).
   9.   Residential trash is required to be kept inside the house, garage or
appropriate enclosure until the morning of trash collection. Encourage trash
containers to have attached lids.
   10.   Dogs and cats are required to be in latchable carriers or on leashes
when outside the residential or commercial lots during critical migration
periods as determined by Idaho Fish and Game.
   11.   Contractors will be prohibited from bringing dogs to construction
sites.
   12.   Motorized vehicles will be limited from roads and trails (four-wheel
drive vehicles, snowmobiles and motorcycles) except for construction, fire,
emergency and maintenance vehicles.
   13.   Wildlife educational materials will be included and an acknowledgment
of wildlife presence and the potential for property damage in the project's
homeowners' documents.
   14.   Big game crossing signs will be posted at major crossing points along
Cartwright Road and Dry Creek Road (maximum 4 signs). Where wildlife and
development conflicts continue to occur despite these measures, Hidden Springs
will work with local, State and Federal agencies in an attempt to resolve these
conflicts. (Ord. 325, 3-12-1997)
ARTICLE B. SPRING ROCK PLANNED COMMUNITY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-21B-1: General Provisions
8-21B-2: Land Use Districts And Overlay District
8-21B-3: Allowed Uses
8-21B-4: Use Standards
8-21B-5: Temporary Uses
8-21B-6: Development Standards
8-21B-7: Administration
8-21B-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Short Title: This article, which may be amended from time to time, will
be known, cited, and referred to as the SPRING ROCK DEVELOPMENT CODE.
   B.   Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of this article is to carry out the vision, goals, and
policies of the Spring Rock planned community comprehensive sub-area plan by
classifying and regulating the uses of property and structures.
      2.   Because the vision of Spring Rock planned community differs from
that of other development in unincorporated Ada County, it is necessary to
establish standards in conformance with Idaho Code § 67-6511, including, but
not limited to, those regulating:
         a.   The height and size of structures.
         b.   The use of structures and property.
         c.   The size of required yards and placement of structures on
properties.
         d.   The density, size of lots, and mix of residential dwelling types.
         e.   The design and construction of public utilities for wastewater,
irrigation water, potable water, streets, broadband services, and other
utilities.
         f.   A method of administration for reviewing permits and applications
within the Spring Rock planned community.
      3.   By detailing and clarifying applicable provisions for development
within Spring Rock planned community, the intent is to achieve the Spring Rock
community vision, protect property rights, and enhance property values.
   C.   Applicability: This article governs and controls all development within
the Spring Rock planned community as described in the Spring Rock
implementation plan and depicted on the sub-area plan future land use map.
      1.   The provisions of the Ada County zoning ordinance (Ada County code
title 9), as it exists on November 21, 2023 governs all standards or processes
that are not specifically identified, set forth, or modified by this article.
      2.   Amendment of the Ada County zoning ordinance will not impact the
future development of the Spring Rock planned community and will neither modify
nor amend the specific provisions of this article, or the sub-area future land
use map, the development standards, or the land use table adopted pursuant to
this article.
      3.   Any contradiction, inconsistency, or ambiguity between the
requirements of this article and any other provision of the Ada County zoning
ordinance will be governed and controlled by this article.
      4.   The provisions of this article are severable, and if any provision,
sentence, clause, section, or any part thereof, is held illegal, invalid,
unconstitutional, or inapplicable, it will not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or parts of this article.
   D.   Definitions: The definitions set forth in section
8-1A-1 of this title are generally applicable in the interpretation and
construction of this article; provided, however, that definitions set forth
below are unique to this article and will be used specifically in the
interpretation and construction of this article. In the event of any conflict
between the terms defined in section
8-1A-1 of this title and the terms defined below, the terms defined below will
take precedence. Subject to the foregoing, any term used in this article not
specifically defined below will have the same meaning ascribed to that term as
per the definitions set forth in section
8-1A-1 of this title, and any term not defined herein or in section
8-1A-1 of this title will be given its plain and ordinary meaning.
ACCESSORY    A detached structure that is incidental to the principal structure and is
STRUCTURE:   located upon the same property.
ALLEY:       A public or private way affording a means of access to abutting property at
             the back or side of a property.
             A structure, or portion thereof, containing five (5) or more dwelling units
APARTMENT    or apartments, where such units are typically arranged as stacked units with
STRUCTURE:   another dwelling unit above and/or below. Apartment housing will often
             include multiple structures on a single property.
             An area, building, or facility which is intended to include the recreational
COMMUNITY    uses, owners' association, and community services that will form a social hub
CENTER:      of the Spring Rock planned community, and which may include offices and
             retail spaces.
DENSITY,     The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development divided
GROSS:       by the total area. Should that number be a fraction, it will be rounded to
             the nearest whole number.
DENSITY,     The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development divided
NET:         by the net residential area. Should that number be a fraction, it will be
             rounded to the nearest whole number.
DUPLEX:      A structure containing two (2) attached dwelling units, where dwelling units
             are located on the same property or on individual lots.
DWELLING,    A structure that offers the opportunity for the occupant to live and work in
LIVE | WORK: the same building with distinctly separate space for each use.
             A habitable dwelling unit established in conjunction with and subordinate to
DWELLING,    a detached single-family dwelling constructed on a foundation. The term
SECONDARY:   includes guesthouse, granny flat, mother-in-law suite, carriage house, and
             garage apartment.
DWELLING,
SINGLE-      A detached structure that accommodates a single family under single ownership
FAMILY       with or without a secondary dwelling as defined in this article.
DETACHED:
FOURPLEX:    A structure containing four (4) attached or stacked dwelling units, where the
             dwelling units are located on the same property.
GARDEN UNIT  A housing project with three (3) or more dwellings that are typically sited
PROJECT:     within or around a common open space area without attached garages and with
             shared amenities and community structures.
HOME         An occupation, profession, or business activity that is conducted within a
OCCUPATION:  dwelling unit.
HOTEL OR     An establishment that provides nightly, weekly, or monthly lodging to the
MOTEL:       public for a fee, including boarding houses, and bed and breakfast
             establishments.
MODEL HOME
or real      One (1) or more dwellings or group of dwellings which are shown to
estates      prospective buyers, which may include parking, signs, fenced visitor areas,
SALES        and sales offices.
CENTER:
             Relating to the governing bodies of the Spring Rock planned community
             including, but not limited to, Ada County, Ada County Highway District,
MUNICIPAL:   Valley Regional Transit, Spring Rock Development LLC, and any firm or firms
             under contract to Spring Rock Development LLC that provide or support
             infrastructure improvements within the Spring Rock planned community.
NET          The total residential area excluding the streets, open space, and non-
RESIDENTIAL  residential areas.
AREA:
OPEN SPACE:  An area that has been generally designated on the Spring Rock sub-area future
             land use map or a subdivision plat as open space.
             The use of a site for the provision of individualized services generally
PERSONAL     related to personal needs. Personal service uses include, but are not limited
SERVICE:     to, beauty services such as salons, hair, nail and skin care, spa, and
             barbers; fitness training and instruction; locksmiths; and repairs such as
             footwear and leather goods, and watches.
PRODUCE      An establishment for the display and sale to the public of produce and
STAND:       related commodities.
PROFESSIONAL Professional service uses include, but are not limited to engineers,
SERVICES:    architects, landscape architects, other design services, graphic designers,
             consultants, lawyers, and media advisors.
SHORT TERM   A lease of a residential dwelling or portion thereof that is less than one
RENTAL:      (1) month in duration that is operated as a commercial activity, including
             but not limited to homes listed on VRBO, AirBNB, and similar rental sites.
             Any temporary event including, but not limited to, art festivals, weddings,
SPECIAL      quinceañeras, bar mitzvahs, bat mitzvahs, picnics, barbecues, holiday events
EVENTS:      and parties, dances, concerts, bike rides and races, footraces and walks,
             auction and sales, bazaars, sales or marketing event, and harvest festivals
             and events.
SPRING ROCK  That certain committee established by the developer to review and approve
DESIGN       site plans, architecture and landscape designs, temporary use, and special
COMMITTEE:   events within the Spring Rock planned community.
SPRING ROCK  The limited liability corporation responsible for the design, development,
DEVELOPMENT  and management of the Spring Rock planned community, including contracted
LLC:         service providers.
SUB-AREA     The Spring Rock Planned Community sub-area comprehensive plan.
PLAN:
             An abode that is less than five hundred (500) square feet in area that is
TINY HOME:   built on a mobile platform. For the purposes of this chapter, a tiny home
             will be considered a recreational vehicle.
TOWNHOME:    A structure containing four (4) or more dwellings, where each dwelling unit
             is located on an individual lot.
             A structure containing three (3) attached dwelling units, where dwelling
TRIPLEX:     units are located on the same property or on individual lots. (Ord. 963, 11-
             21-2023)
 
8-21B-2: LAND USE DISTRICTS AND OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   District Boundaries: All land within the Spring Rock planned community
is divided into land use districts as depicted on the sub-area plan future land
use map. Land use district boundaries are general in nature and may be
stretched to accommodate specific development proposals.
   B.   Purpose And Density: The use of each lot, parcel or tract of land is
defined by the standards of its applicable land use district. The statement of
purpose and allowed density of each land use district are as follows:
      1.   Residential Homes (RH): It is the purpose of the residential homes
district to provide for primarily single-family detached homes and customary
attached or detached accessory structures, including secondary dwelling units,
home offices, and storage sheds. Duplexes and triplexes are also acceptable
when scattered throughout a neighborhood of single-family detached homes.
Garden unit projects are appropriate where they do not exceed the maximum gross
density. Lot and home size can vary based on market demand and affordability
goals. Higher densities are encouraged within the urban village area. The
maximum allowed gross density is six (6) dwelling units per acre, except within
the urban village area where the maximum allowed density is ten (10) units per
acre.
      2.   Townhomes District (TH): It is the purpose of the townhomes district
to provide for townhome structures with some duplexes, triplexes, and
fourplexes to facilitate efficient and attractive block and roadway design.
Garden unit projects are appropriate where they do not exceed the maximum gross
density. Lot and home size can vary based on market demand and affordability
goals. Within the urban village, live | work dwellings are encouraged. The
maximum allowed gross density is twelve (12) dwelling units per acre, except
within the urban village area where there is no maximum allowed density.
      3.   Apartment Housing District (AH): It is the purpose of the apartment
housing district to provide apartments with associated recreation, parking, and
maintenance facilities. Apartment sizes can vary based on market demand and
affordability goals. Apartments can be rental units or condominiums. The
maximum allowed gross density is forty (40) dwelling units per acre.
      4.   Neighborhood Commercial District (NC): It is the purpose of the
neighborhood commercial district to provide retail stores and restaurants,
office, and some limited manufacturing activities. Within the urban village,
apartment style or condominium housing is encouraged above commercial uses. No
industrial uses are anticipated in the urban village.
      5.   Community Services (CS): It is the purpose of the community services
district to provide school sites for the Spring Rock planned community
residents. If a school district submits a written statement to the county that
a proposed school site is not needed for public educational facilities, other
appropriate uses are listed in
Table 8-21B-1. Likewise, if, after the defined period stated below, a proposed
school site is not planned for use as a public educational facility, other
appropriate uses are listed in
Table 8-21B-1.
         a.   The designated CS area west of Five Mile road is held for use as
an elementary school site for the Kuna school district for a limited time
period. The exclusive use of the property is subject to the following: upon
issuance of certificate of occupancy for ninety percent (90%) of the spring
rock planned community residences within area "A" as depicted in the spring
rock planned community comprehensive sub-area plan, the Kuna school district
must have secured financing to complete construction of an elementary school
within five years. If that condition is not met, the site may be used for
another allowed use.
         b.   The designated CS area within the urban village is held for use
as an elementary school site for the West Ada school district for a limited
time period. The exclusive use of the property is subject to the following:
upon issuance of certificate of occupancy for ninety percent (90%) of the
residences within area "D" as depicted in the spring rock planned community
comprehensive sub-area plan, the West Ada school district must have secured
financing to complete construction of an elementary school within five years.
If that condition is not met, the site may be used for another allowed use.
      6.   Open Space | Parks District (OS): It is the purpose of the open
space district to provide areas for parks, the community center, neighborhood
recreation areas, trails, playgrounds and playfields, greenbelt, bicycle
facilities, fishing ponds, pavilions for special events, and pathways.
Municipal buildings to support Spring Rock infrastructure are also appropriate,
including but not limited to, maintenance facilities, water and sewer
infrastructure buildings, park-and-ride lots, and sheltered bus stop areas.
   C.   Urban Village (UV) Overlay: The urban village is the area bounded by
Tenmile Creek Road, Five Mile Road, and Gem Valley Road. The purpose of the
Urban Village overlay is to allow intense use of the properties in the
residential homes, townhomes, apartment housing, and neighborhood commercial
districts to create an active, pedestrian-friendly, and bustling center to the
community. Residential subdivisions within the urban village must have an
overall minimum net density of ten (10) units per acre.
TABLE 8-21B-1 ALLOWED USE BY DISTRICT
ALLOWED USE RH RH | UV TH TH | UV AH AH | UV NC NC | UV CS1 OS
TABLE 8-21B-1 ALLOWED USE BY DISTRICT
ALLOWED USE                  RH RH | UV TH TH | UV AH AH | UV NC NC | UV CS1 OS
^ No additional use standards         * See use standards in this
chapter         # See use standards in chapter 5 of this title
Residential
Single family detached       P  P       P  C       C  C       -- --      --  --
dwelling ^
Duplex ^                     P  P       P  P       C  C       -- --      --  --
Triplex ^                    P  P       P  P       C  C       -- --      --  --
Fourplex *                   -- --      P  P       P  P       -- --      --  --
Townhomes ^                  -- --      P  P       C  P       C  C       --  --
Apartment housing *          -- --      -- C       P  P       C  C | P2  --  --
Live | work dwelling *       -- P       -- P       -- C       -- P       --  --
Garden unit project ^        P  P       P  P       C  C       -- --      --  --
Lodging | Group Living
Hotel, motel, or bed &       -- --      -- --      C  C       P  P       --  --
breakfast ^
Short term rental ^          -- --      P  P       P  P       P  P       --  --
Care Facilities
Clinic, dental or medical ^  -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Continuing care facility ^   -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       P   --
Daycare center #             -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       P   --
Family daycare home #        P  P       P  P       P  P       -- --      --  --
Group daycare facility #     C  C       -- --      C  C       P  P       --  --
Hospital ^                   -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Medical care facility ^      -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Retail | Office
Artist studio and sales ^    -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Bar, brewpub, or wine        -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
tasting room ^
Drive-up window service #    -- --      -- --      -- --      P  C       --  --
Financial institution ^      -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Fuel sales facility #        -- --      -- --      -- --      P  --      --  --
Laundromat ^                 -- --      -- --      P  P       P  P       --  --
Office or professional       -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
services ^
Nursery, retail ^            -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Personal services *          -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Postal services ^            -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Research and development ^   -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Restaurant ^                 -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Retail store ^               -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Veterinary services ^        -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Entertainment | Recreation
Amusement or recreation,     -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  P
indoor ^
Amusement or recreation,     -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       C   P
outdoor #
Community garden ^           P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
Park, public or community ^  P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
Recreational vehicle or tiny -- --      -- --      C  --      P  C       --- --
home park *
Shooting range, indoor ^     -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
Civic | Community Assembly:
Event center or venue ^      -- --      -- --      C  C       P  P       --  P
Community center ^           P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
Library or learning commons  -- --      -- --      P  P       P  P       P   --
^
Movie or arts theatre ^      -- --      -- --      C  C       P  P       --  --
Public, quasi-public use ^   P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
Religious land use ^         C  C       C  C       C  C       P  P       P   C
School, public or private ^  -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       P   --
Light Industry:                                                              -
Car wash #                   -- --      -- --      -- --      P  --      --  --
Light industrial ^           -- --      -- --      -- --      P  --      --  --
Storage facility # | outdoor -- --      -- --      -- --      P  --      --  --
storage *
Vehicle repair, minor #      -- --      -- --      -- --      P  --      --  --
Infrastructure:
Electric charging station    C  C       C  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
for public use ^
Electric distribution or     P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
sub-transmission #
Electric transmission #      C  C       C  C       C  C       C  C       C   C
Electric substation #        C  C       C  C       C  C       C  C       C   C
Ground passenger             -- --      -- --      P  P       P  P       C   C
transportation ^
Radio or TV broadcasting     -- --      -- --      -- --      P  P       --  --
station ^
Sewage treatment facility *  P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
Solar power facility,        -- --      -- --      P  P       P  P       P   P
rooftop ^
Transit facility ^           -- --      -- --      P  P       P  P       P   C
Tower or antenna structure,  C  C       C  C       C  C       C  C       C   C
commercial #
Tower or antenna structure,  C  C       C  C       C  C       C  C       C   C
private #
Water remediation, onsite *  P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
Accessory Uses:
Accessory structure *        A  A       A  A       A  A       A  A       A   A
Family daycare home #        A  A       A  A       A  A       -- --      --  --
Fuel cell ^                  A  A       A  A       A  A       A  A       A   A
Hobby kennel #               A  --      -- --      -- --      -- --      --  --
Home occupation *            A  A       A  A       A  A       A  A       --  --
Portable classroom ^         -- --      -- --      -- --      A  A       A   --
Secondary dwelling *         A  A       A  A       -- --      -- --      --  --
Swimming pool, private ^     A  A       A  A       A  A       A  A       A   A
Temporary construction       A  A       A  A       A  A       A  A       A   A
office ^
Temporary Uses:
Food truck *                 -- --      -- --      -- P       -- P       P   P
Model home or real estate    P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
sales center *
Pit, mine, or quarry, small  P  P       P  P       P  P       P  P       P   P
*
Seasonal or produce stand *  -- --      -- --      -- P       P  P       P   P
Special event *              -- --      -- --      -- P       P  P       P   P
1.   See also section 8-21B-2B5 regarding purpose and allowed uses.
2.   Within the NC | UV district, apartment housing is a principal permitted
use on upper floors.
 
(Ord. 963, 11-21-2023)
8-21B-3: ALLOWED USES:
Table 8-21B-1 lists principal permitted (P), accessory (A), conditional (C), or
prohibited (--). The addition of "UV" to the district name signifies that it
applies to properties within the urban village overlay.
   A.   Dwellings:
      1.   Allowed residential uses are based on the number of dwelling units
in the structure.
      2.   A single family detached dwelling may not exceed one (1) primary
dwelling and one (1) attached or detached secondary dwelling.
      3.   Secondary dwellings are prohibited on duplex, triplex, fourplex,
townhome, and apartment properties.
      4.   Recreational vehicles and tiny homes are not considered dwelling
units and are a prohibited use in all districts unless located within an
approved recreational vehicle or tiny home park as set forth in section
8-21B-4G.
   B.   Un-Listed Uses: If a proposed use is not specifically listed in
Table 8-21B-1, the director will determine whether the use is permitted or not.
This determination will be based upon the similarity in nature and character to
one (1) or more uses that are listed in the allowed use tables in
chapter 2 of this title and the allowed use table of this article. This
provision allows the director to determine if a proposed use is allowed even if
it is not expressly named in advance by the allowed use tables. This provision
does not allow the director to authorize a use not allowed by the allowed use
tables. In making this determination, the director may refer to the following
factors as guidance:
      1.   Criteria:
         a.   Whether the use has similar visual, traffic, environmental,
parking, employment, and other impacts as an expressly listed use. The director
may refer to empirical studies or generally accepted planning or engineering
sources in making this determination.
         b.   Whether the use is within the same industry classification as
another permitted use. In making this determination, the director may refer to
the most recent edition of the North American Industry Classification Manual
(Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget) ("NAICS").
If the use is not defined in the NAICS, the director may refer to the American
Planning Association, Land-Based Classification Standards LBCS Tables.
      2.   If Not Authorized Then Prohibited: If the director determines that a
proposed use does not fit within a given use type and is not functionally the
same as a permitted, accessory, or conditional use, then the use is a
prohibited use.
      3.   Appeal: The director's determination pursuant to subsections B1 or
B2 above are appealable pursuant to section
8-7-7 of this title. (Ord. 963, 11-21-2023)
8-21B-4: USE STANDARDS:
Each use listed in
Table 8-21B-1 above includes a notation on the specific use standards that
apply to that use. Uses that note a "^" have no addition use standards. Uses
that note a "*" are subject to the use standards in this chapter. Uses that
note a "#" are subject to the use standards set forth in
chapter 5 of this title.
   A.   Accessory Structure: Accessory structures may be used for residential
storage, home occupations (see subsection C below), or secondary dwellings (see
subsection H below).
      1.   The maximum allowed enclosed area for an accessory structure is nine
hundred (900) square feet. Accessory structures larger than nine hundred (900)
square feet are prohibited.
      2.   No more than one (1) accessory structure on a property may be used
for a home occupation. The maximum habitable area for a home occupation in an
accessory structure is nine hundred (900) square feet. Additional accessory
structures for use as home occupations are prohibited.
      3.   No more than one (1) accessory structure on a property may be used
for a secondary dwelling. The maximum habitable area for a secondary dwelling
in an accessory structure is nine hundred (900) square feet. Additional
accessory structures for use as secondary dwellings are prohibited.
   B.   Apartment And Fourplex Projects:
      1.   All apartment and fourplex projects with more than eight (8) units
must provide the following amenities and plans:
         a.   Landscaping and architectural plans that reduce the opportunity
for crime, by not creating hidden areas and corners, dark areas, or unusable
space. Common open space, landscaping and site amenities must be visible i.e.,
along streets, where doors and windows overlook public areas, etc.
         b.   Lighting plans that illuminate parking areas, walkways, and
entrances to further reduce the opportunity for crime.
         c.   Secure storage for bikes, scooters, and other micro-mobility
devices.
      2.   In addition to the amenities listed above, all apartment and
fourplex projects with more than twenty (20) units must provide the following
amenities:
         a.   At least one (1) common grassy area integrated into the site
design allowing for general activities by all ages. Projects that provide safe
access to adjacent public parks, without crossing an arterial roadway, are
exempt from this standard. The common grassy area must be at least five
thousand (5,000) square feet in area. This area should increase proportionately
as the number of units increase and should be commensurate to the size of the
apartment project. The common grassy open space must support active and passive
uses for recreation, social gathering, and relaxation to serve the development.
         b.   Open space must be accessible and well connected throughout the
development. This quality can be shown with open spaces that are centrally
located within the development, accessible by pathway, or visibly located along
collector streets or as a terminal view from a street.
         c.   Dog area with waste station.
         d.   Charging station for electric vehicles.
   C.   Home Occupation: Home occupations are limited to the following uses:
artist studio, office, professional service, or personal service. The following
standards apply to all home occupations. Daycare is not a home occupation (Ada
County code
8-5-3-54). Contractor's yard or shop is not a home occupation (Ada County code
8-5-3-31). Hobby automotive is not a home occupation (Ada County code
8-5-3-17) as is prohibited in the Spring Rock planned community.
      1.   The home occupation must not cause the property to differ from its
residential character in appearance, or in the emission of noise, dust, fumes,
odors, vibrations, or electrical interference.
      2.   Home occupations must comply with all applicable state and federal
regulations.
      3.   No outdoor storage or outdoor loading is allowed.
      4.   The home occupation must not discharge any hazardous material into
any sewer, drainageway or the ground. Storage or use of hazardous materials,
odor-causing materials, or other materials that may cause a nuisance or health
or safety problems is prohibited.
      5.   The home occupation must be conducted by the residents and no more
than one (1) on-site employee at any given time.
      6.   The home occupation must not have more than two (2) customers on-
site at any given time.
      7.   The property owner must ensure that the home occupation continuously
complies with the restrictions and standards in this section.
      8.   A home occupation is allowed as an accessory use and requires no
further review.
   D.   Live | Work Dwelling: The following standards apply:
      1.   The non-residential use must be an artist studio, office,
professional service, personal service, or clinic, dental or medical.
      2.   No outdoor storage or outdoor loading is allowed.
      3.   The non-residential use must be conducted by the residents and no
more than two (2) on-site employees at any given time.
      4.   All visits by the non-resident employees, clients and customers must
occur between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M., Monday through Friday, and between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
      5.   The non-residential use is limited to no more than five (5)
customers or clients at any given time.
   E.   Onsite Water Remediation: Allowed use only for Spring Rock Development
LLC or contracted service provider. The applicant or owner must obtain written
approval from the state of Idaho department of environmental quality. The
approval must make specific reference to the location, substance being treated,
method of treatment, monitoring methods, and ability of the site to support the
proposed use.
   F.   Outdoor Storage: Accessory outdoor storage is prohibited in all
districts. Outdoor storage is allowed as part of a permitted storage facility
see
Table 8-21B-1: Allowed Use by District.
   G.   Recreational Vehicle Or Tiny Home Park:
      1.   Use Of Spaces:
         a.   Spaces may be rented to customers to park a recreational vehicle,
vacation trailer, tiny home, or passenger vehicle with associated tent camping
or other shelter arrangements.
         b.   Commercial trucks with trailers are prohibited.
         c.   The use of generators within the park is prohibited.
         d.   Customers must discharge wastewater holding tanks at the dump
station prior to hooking up to the sewer connection.
      2.   Accessory Uses: Allowed accessory uses include, but are not limited
to, management headquarters, recreational facilities, wireless hotspots or
cafes, caretaker dwelling, coin-operated laundry facilities, toilets, showers,
and tank dump station.
      3.   Design Standards:
         a.   No entrance or exit will be permitted which moves traffic from
the park directly through a residential home district.
         b.   All drive aisles will be considered fire lanes and must be
designed to meet Kuna rural fire district standards.
         c.   Each rental space must have a designated parking pad that is
twenty feet (20') in length and twelve feet (12') in width and be constructed
with an all-weather surface such as concrete, asphaltic paving, or pavers.
Parking pads must not be located closer than six feet (6') to any other parking
pad, public street, or property line.
         d.   Each park must provide a dump station for discharging wastewater
holding tanks. The dump station must be approved by the Central District Health
Department.
         e.   Each rental space must have connections for sewer, potable water,
and electricity.
         f.   The site must be designed to prevent standing water from
irrigation or storm events in the rental space areas.
         g.   Outdoor speaker systems are prohibited.
   H.   Secondary Dwelling: The following standards apply:
      1.   The maximum habitable space for a detached secondary unit is nine
hundred (900) square feet. This does not include covered outdoor space or
garage.
      2.   All secondary dwellings must meet the minimum lot size, minimum
structure setback, and maximum height standards.
      3.   A principal permitted dwelling (or a dwelling under construction
with a valid building permit) must be present on the property.
      4.   No more than one (1) secondary unit is permitted on a property.
Additional secondary dwellings are prohibited.
      5.   Either the principal dwelling or the secondary unit must be owner
occupied.
      6.   Manufactured homes, mobile homes, tiny homes, and recreation
vehicles are prohibited for use as a secondary dwelling. Modular homes are
allowed.
   I.   Sewage Treatment Facility: Allowed use only for Spring Rock Development
LLC or contracted service provider. The applicant or owner must obtain written
approval for the acceptance, treatment, and disposal of septage from the state
of Idaho department of environmental quality. The approval must make specific
reference to the location of the facility, type of facility, the substances
being treated and its sources, the methods of treatment, the methods and
locations of disposal of solids, monitoring methods, and the ability of the
site to support the proposed use. (Ord. 963, 11-21-2023)
8-21B-5: TEMPORARY USES:
The provisions of this article will govern temporary uses within the Spring
Rock planned community. Subject to approvals from the Spring Rock design
committee, allowed temporary uses include food truck; model home or real estate
sales center; pit, mine, or quarry; seasonal or produce stands; and special
events. All other temporary uses are prohibited.
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   The use must not result in the construction of any permanent
structure that would not otherwise be permitted subject to these regulations.
      2.   The applicant has a continuous obligation to maintain adequate
housekeeping practices to not create a nuisance.
   B.   Food Truck: The Spring Rock design committee must approve the food
truck location and hours of operation. A zoning certificate is not required.
   C.   Model Home Or Real Estate Sales Center:
      1.   The Spring Rock design committee must approve the model home or real
estate sales center location and hours of operation. A zoning certificate is
not required.
      2.   Model homes and real estate sales centers may operate continually up
to ten (10) years or until the final house is occupied within a distance of
one-half (1/2) mile, whichever comes first.
   D.   Pit, Mine, Or Quarry: A pit, mine, or quarry is only allowed as a
temporary use for Spring Rock Development LLC or contracted service provider
and must comply with the following standards:
      1.   The applicant must provide documentation from the appropriate agency
that the proposed pit, mine, or quarry operation and reclamation plan comply
with federal and state regulations regarding safety, air and water quality and
site reclamation.
      2.   The proposed extraction activities must be completed within five (5)
years.
      3.   The maximum area of the extraction site is ten (10) acres.
      4.   All extraction and hauling activities must take place between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and dusk or six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (whichever is earlier)
Monday through Friday.
      5.   Extraction, movement, or stockpiling within the required yards is
prohibited and stockpiles must not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height. The
tops and toes of cut and fill slopes must remain outside the required yards.
      6.   Asphalt mixing and concrete batching are prohibited.
      7.   The extraction area and haul road must be watered daily (either
naturally-i.e., rain, snow, or frost-or manually) to reduce dust impacts to
surrounding properties. Haul roads must have a durable and dust free surface
and must be graded to drain all surface water from the haul roads.
      8.   Upon reclamation of the property, any contaminated soils must be
properly recycled or disposed.
      9.   If approved, the zoning certificate will list a beginning and ending
date for a period not exceeding five (5) years.
      10.   At least sixty (60) days prior to expiration, the applicant may
apply for a zoning certificate to renew the pit mine or quarry for a period not
exceeding five (5) years.
   E.   Seasonal Or Produce Stand: The Spring Rock design committee must
approve the stand location and hours of operation. A zoning certificate is not
required.
   F.   Special Event:
      1.   For seasonal or community events that have an expected attendance of
less than three hundred (300) people, the Spring Rock design committee must
approve the event. A zoning certificate is not required.
      2.   Seasonal or community events that have an expected attendance of
three hundred (300) people or more must adhere to the following provisions:
         a.   The event organizer must apply for and obtain a zoning
certificate from Ada County development services at least ten (10) days prior
to the event. The application must include letters approving the event from the
Kuna rural fire district, Ada County sheriff's office, central district health
department, and the Ada County highway district.
         b.   Prior to submission to Ada County, the event must have documented
approval of the Spring Rock design committee.
         c.   If approved, the event organizer must notify the Spring Rock
design committee of the date, time, and nature of the event. The Spring Rock
design committee must post a notice in the community center and send an
electronic notice via e-mail or website portal indicating the date, time, and
nature of the event.
         d.   If approved, the zoning certificate must list a beginning and
ending date for a period not exceeding four (4) months. (Ord. 963, 11-21-2023)
8-21B-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development standards will be as set forth in
chapter 4 of this title, except where section
8-21B-6 of this article addresses development standards the standards of this
article will take precedence. All structures and site improvements must meet
the design and development standards of this section.
   A.   Minimum Residential Property Size:
      1.   There is no minimum property size for non-residential uses.
      2.   Minimum residential property size is set forth in
Table 8-21B-2. Minimum residential property size is based on the type of
structure and number of dwelling units within that structure.
TABLE 8-21B-2: MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY SIZE IN SQUARE FEET
RESIDENTIAL TYPE OUTSIDE URBAN VILLAGE (square INSIDE URBAN VILLAGE (square
                 feet)                         feet)
TABLE 8-21B-2: MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY SIZE IN SQUARE FEET
RESIDENTIAL TYPE        OUTSIDE URBAN VILLAGE  INSIDE URBAN VILLAGE (square
                        (square feet)          feet)
Single family detached  3,000                  2,000
dwelling with secondary 3,500                  2,500
dwelling
Duplex                  3,500                  2,500
Triplex                 4,000                  3,000
Fourplex                4,200                  3,200
Townhome                1,200 per dwelling     1,000 per dwelling
Apartments              NA
Live | work dwelling    4,000                  3,000
Garden unit project     2,000 per dwelling     1,500 per dwelling
 
   B.   Minimum Residential Frontage: There is no minimum frontage standard for
non-residential uses. Minimum residential frontage is twenty feet (20'). In
garden unit projects, the project must have a minimum of fifty feet (50') of
frontage. Individual garden unit home lots, if any, have no frontage
requirement.
   C.   Minimum Structure Setback: Standards for minimum allowed structure
setbacks are set forth in
Table 8-21B-3. The most stringent setback standard will apply.
TABLE 8-21B-3: MINIMUM STRUCTURE SETBACK IN FEET
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS (in feet) RH TH AH NC CS OS
TABLE 8-21B-3: MINIMUM STRUCTURE SETBACK IN FEET
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS (in feet) RH      TH      AH      NC      CS      OS
Any property line abutting RH   NA      NA      20      20      20      20
or TH
Any property line abutting an   30      20      20      15      30      30
arterial or collector street
Front property line1            15      10      15      10      10      10
Interior side property line2    3       3       3       3       3       3
Street side property line       10      5       5       5       5       5
Rear property line              10      5       5       5       5       5
Garages and Loading Bays Facing Streets
Required distance from near edge of sidewalk (or curb if no sidewalk) to garage
door or loading bay door
Front yard                      20      20      20      30      30      30
Street side yard                20      20      20      30      30      30
Rear yard where property has    5 or 20 5 or 20 5 or 20 5 or 30 5 or 30 5 or 30
secondary access to rear of lot
Notes:
1.   Where a property has access on a public street and secondary access on a
private street or alley, the property line abutting the public street will be
considered the front property line.
2.   Where a property line is along a shared wall for an attached structure,
there is no required setback.
 
      1.   Required Yards: The front, side, and rear required yards cannot be
occupied by any use or structure except: fencing (see
chapter 5 of this title); landscaping; off-street parking; drives; streets;
signs; lighting; patios; walkways; retaining walls; and certain architectural
features as detailed in subsections C2 and C3 below.
      2.   Where the required setback is greater than or equal to five feet
(5'):
         a.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other architectural features may
project a distance not exceeding two feet (2') into the required yard.
         b.   Fire escapes may project a distance not exceeding four and one-
half feet (4.5') into the required yard.
         c.   Bay windows, balconies, and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding two feet (2') into the required yard, provided that such features do
not occupy, in the aggregate, more than one-third (1/3) of the building wall on
which they are located.
         d.   Detached accessory structures two hundred (200) square feet or
less in area and under ten feet (10') in height may be in required side and
rear yards.
      3.   Where the required setback is less than five feet (5'):
         a.   No projections are allowed into the required yard.
         b.   Side yard easements are allowed when defined and recorded with
the property deed.
   D.   Maximum Height: Standards for allowed maximum height of structures are
set forth in
Table 8-21B-4.
 
TABLE 8-21B-4: MAXIMUM STRUCTURE HEIGHT IN FEET
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS (in feet)      RH TH AH NC CS OS
Maximum height, not in urban village 35 40 50 50 40 35
Maximum height, urban village        40 45 55 55 45 40
 
   E.   Access To Streets: The following standards apply unless otherwise
waived by Board of County Commissioners during the subdivision process.
      1.   Access must be consistent with the Spring Rock planned community
sub-area plan future land use map.
      2.   Where access to a local street is not available, property owners
must grant cross-access/ingress-egress easements to adjoining properties. This
standard is intended to apply primarily to non-residential properties but may
extend to residential properties that do not have access to a local street,
private road, or alley.
   F.   Common Open Space And Landscaping:
      1.   Common open space must be provided consistent with the Spring Rock
planned community sub-area plan. The plan generally depicts larger, connected
open space and recreation features on the future land use map. As residential
subdivisions are submitted for approval, additional common open space must be
provided that allows convenient and safe pedestrian and bicycle access to the
larger planned open spaces within the planned community such as the pathway
along the Williams Northwest pipeline, the community park, the community
center, and the fishing pond.
      2.   Landscaping elements and plans must be consistent with the
provisions of
8-4F-4 through
8-4F-7, except that landscaping within the Williams Northwest pipeline easement
must be free of trees and other deep-rooted plants.
   G.   Parking Spaces And Design: There are no minimum or maximum parking
standards. Parking lots must meet the design standards set forth in section
8-4G-5 of this title.
   H.   Public Utilities: Public utilities must be in a public use easement
that should be located at the front or rear of lots. Side lot line utility
easements will only be required as necessary to support planned facilities.
   I.   Wildland Urban Interface: Areas depicted as "Wildland Urban Interface"
on the sub-area plan existing features map must comply with the standards in
the vegetation control section of
8-3B-3 of this title. (Ord. 963, 11-21-2023)
8-21B-7: ADMINISTRATION:
This section specifies the review and approval process for development within
the Spring Rock planned community in accordance with the provisions of the sub-
area plan and the Ada County zoning ordinance. Administration will be as set
forth in
chapter 7 of this title except where section
8-21B-7 of this article addresses administration, the processes and standards
will be controlled by this article. It is the duty of the director to
administer the provisions of this article for the development of the Spring
Rock planned community. The director must interpret the provisions of this
article and make decisions on land use issues not specifically addressed by the
sub-area plan or this article. The director, commission, and board must base
their approvals or disapprovals upon compliance with the provisions of this
article and the goals and policies and purpose and intent of the sub-area plan.
   A.   Application Procedures: The application procedures set forth in
chapter 7 of this title apply to development within the Spring Rock planned
community except the radius noticing requirement set forth in subsection
8-7A-5C is three hundred feet (300') for all applications.
   B.   Land Divisions: The subdivision of land, or the adjustment of parcels
within the Spring Rock planned community, must conform to the applicable
procedures and specifications of
chapter 6 of this title, except as follows:
      1.   The provisions of subsection
8-6A-1D of this title regarding contiguous parcels do not apply.
      2.   Neighborhood meetings are not required for subdivision applications
that are consistent with the sub-area plan as may be amended from time to time.
      3.   Natural features analyses are not required for subdivision
applications that are within the boundary of the sub-area plan as may be
amended from time to time.
      4.   Development within the Williams Northwest Pipeline easement should
be an open space area, or, when this is not possible, lot divisions should be
on either boundary of the easement (as opposed to splitting the easement
between lots).
      5.   A final plat will be deemed to be in substantial conformance to a
preliminary plat provided that:
         a.   The final plat represents no increase in the number of residences
or non-residential square-footage as approved for the preliminary plat.
         b.   The density and lot dimensions meet the standards of the
applicable land use district.
         c.   The roadway alignments generally conform to those depicted on the
preliminary plat.
      6.   Subdivisions must meet the development standards in chapter 6
article A of this title except: the access as required by section
8-6A-4 may be provided from a public street, a public alley, a private alley, a
private road, or a recorded access easement. Notwithstanding the provisions of
section
8-6A-5, private alleys are allowed.
   C.   Property Boundary Adjustment: Property boundary adjustments are subject
to the provisions of chapter 4 article C except that the following standards
will apply:
      1.   A property boundary adjustment must not reduce the property size
below the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by this article.
      2.   If one (1) or more of the properties is nonconforming as to the
minimum dimensional standards prescribed by this title, the property boundary
adjustment must not increase the nonconformity.
      3.   A property boundary adjustment cannot increase the original number
of properties.
   D.   Development Permits: Development applications will be reviewed, and
development permits will be issued, pursuant to the applicable procedures and
specifications of this code subject to the modifications set forth herein. The
development permits will be reviewed and issued as follows:
      1.   Design Committee: No non-residential development permit may be
issued for any use until such time as the applicant has provided to the county
a letter of approval issued by the Spring Rock design committee evidencing that
the proposed development complies with the design standards for the Spring Rock
planned community.
      2.   Master Site Plan: Master site plan approval is required pursuant to
the procedures of chapter 4, article E of this title regarding master site plan
approval for all uses except as modified herein.
         a.   The uses listed in subsections
8-4E-2B and C of this title are exempt from master site plan approval. The
following temporary uses in section
8-21B-5 are also exempt from master site plan approval: food truck; model home
or real estate sales center; seasonal or produce stand, and special event.
         b.   The director will apply the standards set forth in section
8-4E-4 of this title, to the extent that those standards do not conflict with
the provisions of this article. For purposes of master site plan approval,
compliance with this article and the sub-area plan will constitute compliance
with subsections
8-4E-4D, G, I, J, and K of this title and an applicant for master site plan
approval is not required to comply with the standards set forth in those
sections.
         c.   In the event of any conflict between the standards set forth in
section
8-4E-4 of this title and this article, the use and development standards of
this article will control.
      3.   Director Approval: To approve an application for master site plan
approval, the director must make the following findings:
         a.   The master site plan complies with this article, the Ada County
zoning ordinance and is in accordance with the sub-area plan.
         b.   The proposed landscaping meets the requirements of
chapter 4, article F of this title as amended by this article.
         c.   The proposed parking and loading spaces meet the requirements of
chapter 4, article G of this title as amended by this article.
         d.   The proposed lighting plan meets the requirements of
chapter 4, article H of this title as amended by this article.
         e.   The proposed master site plan complies with the land use design
and development standards in title 8
chapter 4 as amended by this article.
      4.   Zoning Certificate: Except as noted in section
8-21B-5 (temporary uses) and as otherwise amended in this article, a zoning
certificate is required for all uses and must be issued in conformance with the
requirements of the Ada County zoning ordinance. (Ord. 963, 11-21-2023)
TITLE 9
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
CHAPTER 1
KUNA AREA OF CITY IMPACT 1
SECTION:
9-1-1: Kuna Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-1-2: Applicable Plan, Policies And Ordinances
9-1-3: Coordination Of Comprehensive Plan Amendments
9-1-4: Coordination Of Zoning Ordinance Amendments And Land Use Applications
9-1-5: Renegotiation Of This Chapter
 
Notes
1 1. Prior ordinance history: Ord. 89, 1-23-1979; Ord. 90, 1-23-1979; Ord. 159,
  12-10-1986; Ord. 378, 8-3-1999.
9-1-1: KUNA AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   Kuna Area Of City Impact Boundary Map: The Kuna area of city impact
boundary is the areas designated on the Kuna Area of City Impact Boundary Map,
as adopted by Ada County ordinance no. 862 and as further described in the
legal descriptions attached thereto, fully incorporated by reference, copies of
which are available for inspection at the Ada County Development Services
Department.
      1.   Amendments to the map are as follows:
         a.   Ordinance 924, July 14, 2021.
         b.   Ordinance 941, September 14, 2022.
         c.   Ordinance 949, May 10, 2023.
   B.   Division By Boundary Line:
      1.   When a property under single ownership is divided by the common area
of the City impact boundary lines of two (2) cities, such that one (1) or both
of the parts has a depth of three hundred feet (300') or less, such part may be
included in the area of City impact in which the larger portion is located.
      2.   When a property under a single ownership is divided only by the Kuna
area of City impact boundary line, the part located outside of the impact area
may be included in the Kuna area of City impact as long as it is smaller in
size than the property located within the area of City impact. (Ord. 863, 2-15-
2017; amd. Ord. 925, 7-14-2021; Ord. 942, 9-14-2022; Ord. 950, 5-10-2023)
9-1-2: APPLICABLE PLAN, POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   The City of Kuna 2019 Comprehensive Plan and Future Land Use Map as
amended November 1, 2022 by the City of Kuna, and as adopted by Ada County
resolution no. 2867, and further amended on March 19, 2024 by City of Kuna
resolution no. R22-2024, and as amended by Ada County Resolution no. 3021,
shall apply to unincorporated property within the Kuna Area of City Impact as
adopted by Ada County ordinance no. 949.
   B.   The Ada County zoning ordinance (title 8 of this Code) shall apply to
all unincorporated property within the Kuna Area of City Impact.
   C.   Ada County Code Title 10 along with Appendix E of the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan initially adopted by Ada County Resolution No. 2487, or as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to all unincorporated
properties located within the Kuna areas of city impact boundary to enable the
collection of impact fees to support the cost-effective delivery of public
services.
(Ord. 863, 2-15-2017; amd. Ord. 905, 12-18-2019; Ord. 950, 5-10-2023; Ord. 981,
9-18-2024)
9-1-3: COORDINATION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan Amendments: All proposed County amendments and City
amendments to the Comprehensive Plan applicable within the Kuna areas of City
impact shall be sent by the entity considering such amendment to the other
entity at least thirty (30) days prior to the public hearing. The reviewing
entity may either request to renegotiate or may waive their right to
renegotiate and schedule the appropriate hearings to incorporate the proposed
changes into the Comprehensive Plan applicable within the area of City impact.
If the reviewing entity disagrees with the proposed amendment the entity shall
request to renegotiate pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d) prior to the
public hearing. Otherwise the reviewing entity shall schedule the appropriate
hearings to incorporate the proposed changes into the Comprehensive Plan
applicable within the area of City impact. (Ord. 863, 2-15-2017; Ord. 950, 5-
10-2023)
9-1-4: COORDINATION OF ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND LAND USE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications for planned unit developments, subdivisions, and zoning
ordinance amendments, within the City of Kuna areas of City impact shall occur
as a result of a request for annexation to the City of Kuna; however, Ada
County may consider such applications in those exceptions where annexation is
not approved by the City of Kuna or where the parcel on which such application
is filed is not contiguous to the City of Kuna, and therefore cannot be
annexed.
   B.   At least thirty (30) days prior to any Ada County public hearing on any
land use application for property within the City of Kuna areas of City impact,
the Ada County Development Services Department shall notify City of Kuna of the
land use application to be considered by the Ada County Planning and Zoning
Commission or the Board of Ada County Commissioners. The City of Kuna may
provide, prior to or at the hearing, a recommendation to the Ada County
Development Services Department Director on such application, citing the
applicable adopted Comprehensive Plan policies, goals, objectives or provisions
applicable to such recommendation. Any recommendation from the City of Kuna
shall not be binding or controlling on the County, but shall be treated as
documentary evidence in the hearing record, and be given due consideration.
   C.   The Board of Ada County Commissioners or the Ada County Planning and
Zoning Commission shall not hold a public hearing on such application until
either the recommendation of City of Kuna has been received, or thirty (30)
days from the date notice of such application was sent to City of Kuna has
passed.
   D.   The Ada County Department of Development Services shall notify the City
of Kuna in writing of the final action on land use applications located within
the City of Kuna areas of City impact within thirty (30) days following a
decision by either the County Planning and Zoning Commission or Board of Ada
County Commissioners, as applicable. (Ord. 863, 2-15-2017)
9-1-5: RENEGOTIATION OF THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), the City of Kuna or
the Ada County Board of County Commissioners may request, in writing,
renegotiation of any provision of this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30)
days of receipt of such written request by either party, a meeting between the
two (2) jurisdictions shall occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by the City of Kuna and Ada County, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code, or until
declaratory judgment from the District Court is final. Provided, however, that
this chapter or stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and
effect if both jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted ordinance. (Ord. 863,
2-15-2017)
CHAPTER 2
EAGLE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Eagle Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-2-2: Annexation To Occur Only In Area Of City Impact
9-2-3: Applicable Plan Policies And Ordinances
9-2-4: Amendment Of Plan Policies And Ordinances
9-2-5: Zoning Within The Eagle City Area Of City Impact
9-2-6: Renegotiation Of Plan Policies And Ordinance Application Provisions
9-2-1: EAGLE AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   Eagle Area Of City Impact And Urban Service Planning Area Boundary Map:
      1.   The Eagle area of city impact and urban service planning area are
the areas designated on the Eagle area of city impact and urban service
planning area boundary map, fully incorporated by reference, copies of which
are available for inspection at the Ada County development services department.
      2.   Amendments to the map are as follows:
         a.   Ordinance 199, May 25, 1989.
         b.   Ordinance 309, June 25, 1996.
         c.   Ordinance 355, March 25, 1998.
         d.   Ordinance 367, December 2, 1998.
         e.   Ordinance 539, April 28, 2004.
         f.   Ordinance 602, December 28, 2005.
         g.   Ordinance 623, June 28, 2006.
         h.   Ordinance 718, December 17, 2008.
   B.   Division By Boundary Line: In case a property under single ownership is
divided by the boundary line of the Eagle area of city impact, if such line
divides such property so that one or both of the parts has a depth of three
hundred feet (300') or less, such part may be included in the jurisdiction
within which the remainder and larger portion of the property is located. (Ord.
98, 9-23-1980; amd. Ord. 99, 9-23-1980, eff. 10-3-1980; amd. Ord. 181, 9-24-
1987; amd. Ord. 199, 5-25-1989; amd. Ord. 309, 6-25-1996; amd. Ord. 355, 3-25-
1998; amd. Ord. 367, 12-2-1998; amd. Ord. 539, 4-28-2004; amd. Ord. 602, 12-28-
2005; amd. Ord. 623, 6-28-2006; amd. Ord. 718, 12-17-2008)
9-2-2: ANNEXATION TO OCCUR ONLY IN AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Annexation by the city of Eagle shall be limited to those lands lying
within the area of city impact and being contiguous to the boundaries of the
city of Eagle.
   B.   Upon annexation, the provisions of this chapter shall no longer apply
to the annexed area.
   C.   The city of Eagle shall not annex the land designated in Ada County
ordinance 309. (Ord. 99, 9-23-1980, eff. 10-3-1980; amd. Ord. 181, 9-24-1987;
amd. Ord. 309, 6-25-1996)
9-2-3: APPLICABLE PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   The Eagle comprehensive plan, as amended by the city of Eagle on
September 14, 2005, by resolution 04-15, and as further amended by Ada County
resolution 1720, shall apply within the Eagle area of city impact.
   B.   Applications for subdivision development in the Eagle area of city
impact shall be evaluated for conformance to the design and improvement
standards contained in the Eagle city code, title 9, chapter 3, and in chapter
4, sections 9-4-1-1 through 9-4-1-12.
   C.   All subdivision plats situated within the area of city impact shall be
submitted to the city of Eagle for their recommendation.
   D.   The Ada County zoning ordinance 1  shall be used to implement this
chapter.
   E.   Ada County Code Title 10 along with Appendix E of the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan initially adopted by Ada County Resolution No. 2487, or as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to all unincorporated
properties located within the Eagle area of city impact boundary to enable the
collection of impact fees to support the cost-effective delivery of public
services.
   F.   Ada County shall use the following standard in calculating density of
residential development: The total number of dwelling units within a proposed
development, divided by the total land area. Fractional amounts greater than
those designated on the Eagle comprehensive plan land use map will not be
allowed except where the Eagle comprehensive plan details a fractional density,
and then the density shall not exceed the number described in the Eagle
comprehensive plan. Floodway areas and land used for public uses such as
schools or public service facilities will not be included in the total land
area calculation. (Ord. 99, 9-23-1980, eff. 10-3-1980; amd. Ord. 181, 9-24-
1987; amd. Ord. 189, 4-21-1988; amd. Ord. 199, 5-25-1989; amd. Ord. 222, 6-28-
1990; amd. Ord. 270, 1-13-1994; amd. Ord. 437, 12-12-2001; amd. Ord. 541, 6-7-
2004; amd. Ord. 623, 6-28-2006; amd. Ord. 765, 11-16-2010; amd. Ord. 905, 12-
18-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code.
9-2-4: AMENDMENT OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   All applications for county and city amendments to their respective
comprehensive plans and implementing ordinances which apply within the Eagle
area of city impact shall be sent by the entity considering such amendment to
the other entity. A separate referral process shall be adopted by resolution by
each entity, regarding procedures and time periods for, and the effect of,
sending such amendments, and such resolution may be amended from time to time
upon mutual agreement in writing by Ada County and the city of Eagle.
   B.   All county applications for planned developments, subdivisions, rezones
and conditional use permits within the Eagle area of city impact shall be sent
to Eagle, in accordance with the referral process arrived at pursuant to
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 99, 9-23-1980, eff. 10-3-1980; amd. Ord.
181, 9-24-1987)
9-2-5: ZONING WITHIN THE EAGLE CITY AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
County zoning districts shall be in accordance with the adopted plan policies
identified in section
9-2-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 181, 9-24-1987)
9-2-6: RENEGOTIATION OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCE APPLICATION PROVISIONS:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), the city of Eagle or the
board of Ada County commissioners may request, in writing, the renegotiation of
any provision of this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt
of such written request by either party, a meeting between the two (2)
jurisdictions shall occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by the city of Eagle and Ada County, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code, or until a
declaratory judgment from the district court is final. Provided, however, that
this chapter or stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and
effect if both jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted resolution. (Ord. 99,
9-23-1980, eff. 10-3-1980; amd. Ord. 181, 9-24-1987)
CHAPTER 3
BOISE CITY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Boise City Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-3-2: Annexation To Occur Only In Area Of City Impact
9-3-3: Applicable Plan Policies And Ordinances
9-3-4: Coordination Of Plan Amendments, Ordinance Amendments And Zoning
Applications
9-3-5: Renegotiation
9-3-1: BOISE CITY AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   Boise City Area Of City Impact Boundary Map:
      1.   The Boise City area of city impact is the area designated on the
Boise City area of city impact boundary map, hereby fully incorporated by
reference, copies of which are available for inspection at the Ada County
development services department.
      2.   Amendments to the map are as follows:
         a.   Ordinance 158, November 26, 1986.
         b.   Ordinance 187, June 9, 1988.
         c.   Ordinance 245, April 2, 1992.
         d.   Ordinance 257, December 3, 1992.
         e.   Ordinance 282, December 1, 1994.
         f.   Ordinance 284, December 22, 1994.
         g.   Ordinance 285, January 26, 1995.
         h.   Ordinance 327, April 9, 1997.
         i.   Ordinance 354, March 11, 1998.
         j.   Ordinance 366, October 7, 1998.
         k.   Ordinance 425, May 23, 2001.
         l.   Ordinance 473, November 20, 2002.
         m.   Ordinance 508, September 24, 2003.
         n.   Ordinance 539, April 28, 2004.
         o.   Ordinance 579, April 13, 2005.
         p.   Ordinance 602, December 28, 2005.
         q.   Ordinance 838, January 14, 2015.
         r.   Ordinance 845, August 12, 2015.
         s.   Ordinance 924, July 14, 2021.
         t.   Ordinance 933, December 8, 2021.
         u.   Ordinance 975, July 10, 2024.
   B.   Annexation: Upon annexation of any portion of the area of city impact
into Boise City, the provisions of this chapter shall no longer apply to such
annexed areas.
   C.   Division By Boundary: In case a property under single ownership is
divided by the boundary line of the Boise area of city impact and any other
area of city impact boundary and the line divides such property so that one or
both of the parts has a depth of three hundred feet (300') or less, such part
may be included in the jurisdiction within which the remainder and larger
portion of the property is located.
   Exception: In the case where a property under a single ownership is divided
by the boundary line of the Boise area of city impact only, the smaller portion
of such property may, without the three hundred foot (300') limitation stated
above, be included in the jurisdiction within which the larger portion of the
property is located.
(Ord. 138, 11-30-1984; amd. Ord. 139, 11-30-1984; amd. Ord. 158, 11-26-1986;
amd. Ord. 187, 6-9-1988; amd. Ord. 245, 4-2-1992; amd. Ord. 257, 12-3-1992;
amd. Ord. 260, 2-25-1993; amd. Ord. 282, 12-1-1994; amd. Ord. 284, 12-22-1994;
amd. Ord. 285, 1-26-1995; amd. Ord. 327, 4-9-1997; amd. Ord. 354, 3-11-1998;
amd. Ord. 366, 10-7-1998; amd. Ord. 425, 5-23-2001; amd. Ord. 473, 11-20-2002;
amd. Ord. 508, 9-24-2003; amd. Ord. 539, 4-28-2004; amd. Ord. 579, 4-13-2005;
amd. Ord. 602, 12-28-2005; amd. Ord. 838, 1-14-2015; amd. Ord. 839, 1-14-2015;
amd. Ord. 846, 8-12-2015; amd. Ord. 925, 7-14-2021; amd. Ord. 933, 12-8-2021;
amd. Ord. 975, 7-10-2024; amd. Ord. 976, 7-10-2024)
9-3-2: ANNEXATION TO OCCUR ONLY IN AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
Boise City shall limit its annexation to those lands within its area of city
impact. If Boise City wishes to annex lands outside of its area of city impact,
it shall renegotiate its area of city impact boundary with Ada County in accord
with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d). (Ord. 139, 11-30-1984; amd. Ord. 245, 4-2-
1992)
9-3-3: APPLICABLE PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   The Boise City comprehensive plan, adopted by Ada County resolution no.
2031, with the future land use map as adopted by Ada County resolution no.
2993, and including the Boise City comprehensive park and recreation system
plan, as amended on October 5, 2004, by Boise City resolution 18344 and as
further amended on November 15, 2005, by Boise City resolution 18866 shall
apply within the unincorporated part of the Boise City area of city impact.
   B.   Title 8 of this code shall be used to implement this chapter. All land
use applications shall also comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Title 4, chapter 12 of the Boise City code, known also as the Boise
City impact fee ordinance 5685, dated November 28, 1995, and as amended by
ordinance 6114 on December 11, 2001, and as amended by ordinance 6462 on April
11, 2006, shall be applicable within the Boise City area of city impact.
   D.   Ada County Code Title 10 along with Appendix E of the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan initially adopted by Ada County Resolution No. 2487, or as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to all unincorporated
properties located within the Boise City area of city impact boundary to enable
the collection of impact fees to support the cost-effective delivery of public
services.
   E.   The Boise City uniform street and address number ordinance,
title 9, chapter 6 of the Boise City code, as may be amended from time to time,
shall apply to all property within the Boise City area of city impact. Street
names and addresses shall be assigned by Boise City. Existing street names and
addresses in the Boise City area of city impact, not in compliance with the
Boise City uniform street and address number ordinance at the time this section
goes into effect, shall not be changed until address changes are necessary for
address continuity.
(Ord. 139, 11-30-1984; amd. Ord. 154, 7-23-1986; amd. Ord. 158, 11-26-1986;
amd. Ord. 187, 6-9-1988; amd. Ord. 245, 4-2-1992; amd. Ord. 260, 2-25-1993;
amd. Ord. 289, 3-28-1995; amd. Ord. 334, 6-25-1997; amd. Ord. 346, 10-8-1997;
amd. Ord. 373, 8-25-1999; amd. Ord. 387, 1-26-2000, eff. 2-28-2000; amd. Ord.
462, 7-24-2002; amd. Ord. 520, 10-8-2003; amd. Ord. 602, 12-28-2005; amd. Ord.
613, 3-22-2006; amd. Ord. 638, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 837, 1-14-2015; amd. Ord.
905, 12-18-2019; amd. Ord. 933, 12-8-2021; Ord. 976, 7-10-2024)
9-3-4: COORDINATION OF PLAN AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND ZONING
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan Amendments: All county and city amendments to their
respective comprehensive plans which apply within the Boise City area of city
impact shall be sent by the entity considering such amendment to the other
entity at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
   B.   Land Use Applications: All subdivision, rezone, and conditional use
permit applications within the Boise City area of city impact shall be sent to
the city for comment at least thirty (30) days prior to a public hearing.
   C.   Applications For Subdivisions And Rezones: Applications for
subdivisions and rezones within the Boise City area of city impact shall occur
as a result of a request for annexation to Boise City; however, Ada County may
consider such applications in those exceptions where annexation is not approved
by Boise City or where the parcel on which such application is filed is not
contiguous to Boise City, and therefore cannot be annexed.
   D.   Development Of Parks: Development of parks by Boise City within the
Boise City area of city impact shall be subject to the provisions of the
agreement for the collection of Boise City park impact fees for development in
the Boise City area of city impact agreement 2431, dated March 28, 1995, which
is hereby adopted by Ada County and made a part hereof by this reference.
   E.   Referral Areas: All land use applications within the referral area
identified on the Boise City area of city impact map shall be submitted to
Boise City at least thirty (30) days prior to any administrative decision or
scheduled public hearing, as appropriate. (Ord. 139, 11-30-1984; amd. Ord. 187,
6-9-1988; amd. Ord. 245, 4-2-1992; amd. Ord. 289, 3-28-1995; amd. Ord. 303, 5-
22-1996; amd. Ord. 334, 6-25-1997; amd. Ord. 539, 4-28-2004; amd. Ord. 602, 12-
28-2005)
9-3-5: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), the Boise City
council or the board of Ada County commissioners may request, in writing, to
renegotiate any provision of this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30) days
of receipt of such written requests by each party, a meeting between the two
(2) jurisdictions shall occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, the provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by Boise City and Ada County, in accordance with the notice and hearing
procedures provided in Ada County and Idaho codes, or until a declaratory
judgment from the district court is final. Provided, however, that this chapter
or stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both
jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted resolution. (Ord. 139, 11-30-1984;
amd. Ord. 245, 4-2-1992)
CHAPTER 4
MERIDIAN AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Meridian Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-4-2: Annexation, Area Of Impact
9-4-3: Applicable Plan Policies And Ordinances
9-4-4: Coordination Of Plan Amendments, Ordinance Amendments And Zoning
Applications
9-4-5: Renegotiation
9-4-1: MERIDIAN AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   Meridian Area Of City Impact Boundary Map:
      1.   The Meridian area of city impact is the area designated on the
Meridian area of city impact boundary map, hereby fully incorporated by
reference, copies of which are available for inspection at the Ada County
development services department.
      2.   Amendments to the map are as follows:
         a.   Ordinance 229, December 20, 1990.
         b.   Ordinance 257, December 3, 1992.
         c.   Ordinance 282, December 1, 1994.
         d.   Ordinance 285, January 26, 1995.
         e.   Ordinance 345, September 24, 1997.
         f.   Ordinance 473, November 20, 2002.
         g.   Ordinance 508, September 24, 2003.
         h.   Ordinance 579, April 13, 2005.
         i.   Ordinance 602, December 28, 2005.
         j.   Ordinance 718, December 17, 2008.
         k.   Ordinance 838, January 14, 2015.
         l.   Ordinance 924, July 14, 2021.
   B.   Division By Boundary: In case a property under single ownership is
divided by the boundary line of the Meridian area of city impact and any other
area of city impact boundary and the line divides such property so that one or
both of the parts has a depth of three hundred feet (300') or less, such part
may be included in the jurisdiction within which the remainder and larger
portion of the property is located.
Exception: In the case where a property under a single ownership is divided by
the boundary line of the Meridian area of city impact only, the smaller portion
of such property may, without the three hundred foot (300') limitation stated
above, be included in the jurisdiction within which the larger portion of the
property is located. (Ord. 136, 10-17-1984; amd. Ord. 137, 10-17-1984; amd.
Ord. 161, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 229, 12-20-1990; amd. Ord. 257, 12-3-1992; amd.
Ord. 282, 12-1-1994; amd. Ord. 285, 1-26-1995; amd. Ord. 345, 9-24-1997; amd.
Ord. 473, 11-20-2002; amd. Ord. 508, 9-24-2003; amd. Ord. 579, 4-13-2005; amd.
Ord. 602, 12-28-2005; amd. Ord. 718, 12-17-2008; amd. Ord. 838, 1-14-2015; amd.
Ord. 839, 1-14-2015; amd. Ord. 925, 7-14-2021)
9-4-2: ANNEXATION, AREA OF IMPACT:
   A.   Annexation by the city of Meridian shall be limited to those lands
lying within the area of impact and being contiguous to the boundaries of the
city of Meridian, except for those properties outside the Meridian area of city
impact and being contiguous to the boundary of the city of Meridian where the
owner has requested annexation as provided for in Idaho Code section 50-222 et
seq.
   B.   Upon annexation, the provisions of this agreement shall no longer apply
to the annexed area. (Ord. 137, 10-17-1984; amd. Ord. 161, 12-10-1986; amd.
Ord. 229, 12-20-1990; amd. Ord. 717, 12-17-2008)
9-4-3: APPLICABLE PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   The December 17, 2019 Meridian comprehensive plan, adopted by Ada
County Resolution 2620, and amended January 15, 2025 by Resolution 3062 shall
apply to the Meridian area of city impact.
   B.   The following plans shall also apply in the Meridian area of city
impact boundary:
      1.   2017 updated Meridian collection system master plan.
      2.   The July 2018 Meridian water master plan.
      3.   The January 2010 Meridian pathways master plan.
      4.   The December 2015 Meridian parks and recreation master plan.
      5.   The December 2021 Meridian Fields Subarea Plan.
      6.   The October 2022 Meridian Existing Conditions Report 2022.
      7.   The March 2024 Meridian Mixed Use Update and/or replace of text and
graphics and new Appendix F: Mixed Use Exhibits.
   C.   All subdivision plats, situated within the area of impact, shall be
submitted to the city of Meridian for approval, in addition to Ada County
approval, as provided in Idaho Code section 50-1306.
   D.   All subdivision plat applications in the urban service planning area
for land zoned RUT (rural-urban transition) shall require a street and utility
easement plan. Said plan shall provide for future resubdivision to urban
densities and shall be included on the final plat. This requirement may be
waived if a letter of waiver is submitted to the director from the Meridian
council prior to preliminary plat approval by the board.
   E.   A condition of approval for all subdivision plats in the urban service
planning area for land zoned RUT (rural-urban transition) shall require that,
prior to occupancy of the subdivision's first dwelling unit, dry line sewer and
water lines shall be installed to accommodate the future resubdivision to urban
densities. This requirement may be waived if a letter of waiver is submitted to
the director from the Meridian city council prior to preliminary plat approval
by the board.
   F.   Title 8 of this code shall be used to implement this chapter. All land
use applications shall also comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Ada County Code Title 10 along with Appendix E of the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan initially adopted by Ada County Resolution No. 2487, or as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to all unincorporated
properties located within the Meridian area of city impact boundary to enable
the collection of impact fees to support the cost-effective delivery of public
services.
(Ord. 137, 10-17-1984; amd. Ord. 161, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 229, 12-20-1990;
amd. Ord. 277, 6-22-1994; amd. Ord. 345, 9-24-1997; amd. Ord. 508, 9-24-2003;
amd. Ord. 535, 4-14-2004; amd. Ord. 717, 12-17-2008; amd. Ord. 841, 3-11-2015;
amd. Ord. 905, 12-18-2019; amd. Ord. 925, 7-14-2021; amd. Ord. 991, 1-15-2025)
9-4-4: COORDINATION OF PLAN AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND ZONING
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Amendment Of City Comprehensive Plan And Ordinances:
      1.   All proposed amendments to the Meridian city comprehensive plan or
the Meridian zoning and/or subdivision ordinances shall be forwarded to the Ada
County development services department director by the Meridian city clerk at
least thirty (30) days prior to any public hearing on any such proposed
amendment(s), whether said amendment(s) is(are) before the Meridian planning
and zoning commission or the Meridian city council. The Ada County department
of development services shall determine whether or not such amendment(s) is
(are) in conflict with either the Ada County comprehensive plan or the Ada
County zoning ordinance 1 . The Ada County development services department
director shall notify the Meridian planning and zoning commission, or the
Meridian city council, as the case may be, of such determination, in writing,
prior to or at such public hearing. Such input from the county shall not be
binding or controlling on Meridian, but shall be treated as documentary
evidence.
      2.   When the Meridian city council has rendered a final decision to
adopt an amendment to the Meridian comprehensive plan or the Meridian zoning
and/or subdivision ordinances, the Meridian city clerk shall, within fifteen
(15) days, forward a copy of the final document to the Ada County development
services department director and the board of Ada County commissioners, along
with a notice as to when the amendment will take effect in the city. Within
thirty (30) days after the plan amendment was mailed, the board of Ada County
commissioners shall either protest the amendment and request renegotiation of
the area of city impact ordinances, or if necessary, shall direct the Ada
County planning and zoning commission to schedule the amendment for public
hearing as an amendment to the area of city impact ordinance.
   B.   Amendment Of County Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance:
      1.   All proposed amendments to the Ada County comprehensive plan and/or
the Ada County zoning ordinance shall be forwarded by the Ada County
development services department director to the Meridian city clerk at least
thirty (30) days prior to any public hearing on any such proposed amendment(s).
The Meridian city council and/or the Meridian planning and zoning commission
shall determine whether or not such amendment is in conflict with one or more
of the goals, objectives, policies or provisions of the Meridian comprehensive
plan, or the Meridian zoning and/or subdivision ordinances. The Meridian city
council shall notify the Ada County development services department of such
determination in writing prior to or at such public hearing. Such input from
the city shall not be binding or controlling on the county, but shall be
treated as documentary evidence.
      2.   The board of Ada County commissioners shall notify Meridian city, in
writing, of the county's action on such amendment(s) within fifteen (15) days
following a final decision on such matter along with notice as to when the
amendment(s) will take effect in the county. Within thirty (30) days after the
amendment(s) was(were) mailed, the Meridian city council shall either protest
the amendment(s) and request renegotiation of the area of city impact
ordinances, or if necessary, shall direct the Meridian city planning and zoning
commission to schedule the amendment for public hearing as an amendment to the
area of city impact ordinance.
   C.   Processing Of Land Use Applications In The Meridian Area Of City
Impact:
      1.   Applications for conditional use permits, master site plans, master
site plan modifications, private roads, one time divisions, expansions or
extensions of nonconforming uses, planned unit developments, subdivision and
rezones within the city of Meridian urban service planning area shall occur as
a result of a request for annexation to the city of Meridian; however, Ada
County may consider such applications in those exceptions where annexation is
not approved by the city of Meridian or where the parcel on which such
application is filed is not contiguous to the city of Meridian, and therefore
cannot be annexed.
      2.   Thirty (30) days prior to any county public hearing on such
application, the Ada County development services department director shall send
to the Meridian city clerk all county land use applications to be considered by
the Ada County planning and zoning commission or the board of Ada County
commissioners concerning property located within the Meridian city area of city
impact. The Meridian planning and zoning commission or the Meridian city
council shall make recommendations to the Ada County development services
department director on such application, in writing, and shall cite the
Meridian zoning and/or subdivision ordinances or the Meridian comprehensive
plan policies, goals, objectives or provisions supporting such recommendation.
Such recommendation shall be submitted in writing to the Ada County development
services department director prior to or at such public hearing. Such input
from Meridian shall not be binding or controlling on the county, but shall be
treated as documentary evidence.
      3.   Neither the board of Ada County commissioners nor the Ada County
planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on such application
until the recommendation of the Meridian city council or Meridian city planning
and zoning commission, as the case may be, has been received, or the date the
county should have been received said council's or commission's
recommendations, specified above, has passed.
      4.   The Ada County department of development services will notify the
Meridian city clerk in writing of the county planning and zoning commission or
board of Ada County commissioners' action on land use applications located
within the Meridian city area of city impact within fifteen (15) days following
a final action by the appropriate county agency on such matter. (Ord. 137, 10-
17-1984; amd. Ord. 161, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 229, 12-20-1990; amd. Ord. 345,
9-24-1997; amd. Ord. 535, 4-14-2004; amd. Ord. 925, 7-14-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code.
9-4-5: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), the Meridian city
council or the board may request, in writing, renegotiation of any provision of
this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written
request by either party, a meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall
occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by the city of Meridian and Ada County, in accordance with the notice
and hearing procedures provided in Ada County and Idaho codes, or until a
declaratory judgment from the district court is final. Provided, however, that
this chapter or stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and
effect if both jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted resolution. (Ord.
137, 10-17-1984; amd. Ord. 161, 12-10-1986; amd. Ord. 229, 12-20-1990)
CHAPTER 5
GARDEN CITY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Garden City Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-5-2: Annexation To Occur Only In Area Of City Impact
9-5-3: Applicable Plan Policies And Ordinances
9-5-4: Coordination Of Plan Amendments, Ordinance Amendments And Zoning
Applications
9-5-5: Zoning Within The Garden City Area Of City Impact
9-5-6: Renegotiation Of Plan Policies And Ordinance Application Provisions
9-5-1: GARDEN CITY AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   Garden City Area Of Impact Boundary Map:
      1.   The Garden City area of city impact is the area designated on the
Garden City impact boundary map, fully incorporated by reference, the
boundaries of which were fixed by special election on May 24, 1983, and copies
of which are available at the Ada County development services department.
      2.   Amendments to the map are as follows:
         a.   Boise City resolution 9471, October 7, 1987, and Garden City
resolution 557A, October 6, 1987.
         b.   Ada County Ordinance 194, September 8, 1988.
         c.   Ada County Ordinance 284, December 22, 1994.
         d.   Ada County Ordinance 933, December 8, 2021.
   B.   Property Under Single Ownership Divided: If a property under single
ownership is divided by the boundary line of the Garden City area of city
impact, and if such line divides such property so that one or both of the parts
has a depth of three hundred feet (300') or less, such part may be included in
the jurisdiction within which the remainder and larger portion of the property
is located. (Ord. 193, 9-8-1988; amd. Ord. 284, 12-22-1994; amd. Ord. 933, 12-
8-2021)
9-5-2: ANNEXATION TO OCCUR ONLY IN AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Annexation by Garden City shall be limited to those lands lying within
the area of city impact and being contiguous to the boundaries of Garden City.
   B.   Upon annexation, the provisions of this chapter shall no longer apply
to the annexed area. (Ord. 193, 9-8-1988)
9-5-3: APPLICABLE PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   The Garden City comprehensive plan, as adopted, by Ada County
resolution no. 2705, shall apply within the Garden City area of city impact.
   B.   The Garden City Master Parks & Waterways Plan, as adopted by Ada County
resolution no. 2705, shall apply within the Garden City area of city impact.
   C.   Applications for subdivision development in the Garden City area of
city impact shall be evaluated by Garden City for conformance to the standards
contained in the Garden City Development Code, Title 8 as amended by Garden
City Ordinance 1016-20, June 8, 2020.
   D.   All subdivision plats situated within the area of city impact shall be
submitted to Garden City for review and comment, in addition to Ada County
approval, as provided in Idaho Code section 50-1306.
   E.   The Ada County zoning ordinance (title 8 of this code) shall be used to
implement this chapter.
   F.   Ada County Code Title 10 along with Appendix E of the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan initially adopted by Ada County Resolution No. 2487, or as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to all unincorporated
properties located within the Garden City area of city impact boundary to
enable the collection of impact fees to support the cost-effective delivery of
public services. (Ord. 193, 9-8-1988; amd. Ord. 679, 11-14-2007; Ord. 905, 12-
18- 2019; amd. Ord. 933, 12-8-2021)
9-5-4: COORDINATION OF PLAN AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND ZONING
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   All applications for county and city amendments to their respective
comprehensive plans and implementing ordinances which apply within the Garden
City area of city impact shall be sent by the entity considering such amendment
to the other entity. A separate referral process shall be adopted by resolution
by each entity, regarding procedures and time periods for, and the effect of,
sending such amendments, and such resolution may be amended from time to time
upon mutual agreement in writing by Ada County and Garden City.
   B.   All county applications for planned unit developments, subdivisions,
rezones, conditional use permits, and master site plans within the Garden City
area of city impact shall be sent to Garden City, in accordance with the
referral process arrived at pursuant to subsection A of this section.
   C.   Applications for conditional use permits, master site plans, master
site plan modifications, private roads, one time divisions, expansions or
extensions of nonconforming uses, planned unit developments, subdivisions and
rezones within the Garden City area of city impact shall occur as a result of a
request for annexation to Garden City, with the exception of properties owned
by Ada County or associated with Expo Idaho; however, Ada County may consider
such applications in those exceptions where annexation is not approved by
Garden City or where the parcel on which such application is filed is not
contiguous to Garden City, and therefore cannot be annexed. (Ord. 193, 9-8-
1988; amd. Ord. 933, 12-8-2021)
9-5-5: ZONING WITHIN THE GARDEN CITY AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
County zoning districts shall be in accordance with the adopted plan policies
identified in section
9-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 193, 9-8-1988)
9-5-6: RENEGOTIATION OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCE APPLICATION PROVISIONS:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), Garden City or the
board of Ada County commissioners may request, in writing, the renegotiation of
any provision of this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt
of such written request by either party, a meeting between the two (2)
jurisdictions shall occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by Garden City and Ada County, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code, or until a
declaratory judgment from the district court is final. Provided, however, that
this chapter or stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and
effect if both jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted resolution. (Ord.
193, 9-8-1988)
CHAPTER 6
STAR AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Star Area Of City Impact Boundary
9-6-2: Annexation, Area Of Impact
9-6-3: Applicable Plans, Policies And Ordinances
9-6-4: Coordination Of Plan Amendments, Ordinance Amendments And Zoning
Applications
9-6-5: Renegotiation
9-6-1: STAR AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   Star Area Of City Impact Boundary Map:
      1.   The Star area of city impact is the area designated on the Star area
of city impact boundary map, as adopted by ordinance 412 and as further
described in the legal descriptions attached thereto, fully incorporated by
reference, copies of which are available for inspection at the Ada County
department of development services.
      2.   The Star urban service planning area is the area designated on the
Star area of city impact boundary map, as adopted by ordinance 412 and the
legal descriptions attached thereto, fully incorporated by reference, copies of
which are available for inspection at the Ada County department of development
services.
      3.   Amendments to the map are as follows:
         a.   Ordinance 493, March 12, 2003.
         b.   Ordinance 596, December 28, 2005.
         c.   Ordinance 718, December 17, 2008.
         d.   Ordinance 924, July 14, 2021.
   B.   Division By Boundary Line: In case a property under single ownership is
divided by the boundary line of the Star area of city impact and any other area
of city impact boundary, if such line divides such property so that one or both
of the parts has a depth of three hundred feet (300') or less, such part may be
included in the jurisdiction within which the remainder and larger portion of
the property is located.
Exception: In the case where a property under a single ownership is divided by
the boundary line of the Star area of city impact only, the smaller portion of
such property may, without the three hundred foot (300') limitation stated
above, be included in the jurisdiction within which the larger portion of the
property is located. (Ord. 413, 12-13-2000; amd. Ord. 493, 3-12-2003; amd. Ord.
596, 12-28-2005; amd. Ord. 718, 12-17-2008; amd. Ord. 925, 7-14-2021)
9-6-2: ANNEXATION, AREA OF IMPACT:
   A.   Annexation by the city of Star shall be limited to those lands lying
within the Star area of city impact and being contiguous to the boundaries of
the city of Star, except for those properties outside the Star area of city
impact and being contiguous to the boundary of the city of Star where the owner
has requested annexation as provided for in Idaho Code section 50-222 et seq.
   B.   Upon annexation, the provisions of this chapter shall no longer apply
to the annexed area. (Ord. 413, 12-13-2000)
9-6-3: APPLICABLE PLANS, POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Star Area Of City Impact:
      1.   The Star comprehensive plan, as adopted by Ada County resolution no.
2706, shall apply within the Star area of city impact.
      2.   The Ada County zoning ordinance shall apply within the Star area of
city impact.
      3.   Ada County Code Title 10 along with Appendix E of the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan initially adopted by Ada County Resolution No. 2487, or as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to all unincorporated
properties located within the Star area of city impact boundary to enable the
collection of impact fees to support the cost-effective delivery of public
services.
      4.   All subdivision final plats situated within the Star area of city
impact shall be submitted to the city of Star for review and comment. (Ord.
413, 12-13-2000; amd. Ord. 596, 12-28-2005; amd. Ord. 905, 12-18-2019; amd.
Ord. 933, 12-8-2021)
9-6-4: COORDINATION OF PLAN AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND ZONING
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Amendment Of City Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   Any proposed amendment to the city of Star comprehensive plan shall
be forwarded to the Ada County development services department by city of Star
at least fifteen (15) days prior to any public hearing on any such proposed
amendment. The Ada County development services department may determine whether
or not such amendment is in conflict with either the Ada County comprehensive
plan or the Ada County zoning ordinance. The Ada County development services
department may notify city of Star in writing prior to or at such public
hearing. Such input from Ada County shall not be binding or controlling on
Star, but shall be treated as documentary evidence.
      2.   When the Star city council has adopted an amendment to the city of
Star comprehensive plan, city of Star shall, within fifteen (15) days, forward
a copy of the adopted amendment to the Ada County development services
department, along with a notice as to when the amendment will take effect in
the city and whether the city is requesting renegotiation of the area of city
impact to adopt the amendment.
   B.   Amendment Of County Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance:
      1.   Any proposed amendment to the Ada County comprehensive plan and/or
the Ada County zoning ordinance applicable within the Star area of city impact
shall be forwarded to city of Star by the Ada County development services
department at least forty five (45) days prior to any public hearing on any
such proposed amendment. City of Star may determine whether or not such
amendment is in conflict with the Star city comprehensive plan. City of Star
may notify the Ada County development services department of such determination
in writing prior to or at such public hearing. Such input from city of Star
shall not be binding or controlling on Ada County, but shall be treated as
documentary evidence.
      2.   When the board of Ada County commissioners has adopted an amendment
to the Ada County comprehensive plan and/or the Ada County zoning ordinance,
the Ada County development services department shall, within fifteen (15) days,
forward a copy of the adopted amendment to city of Star, along with a notice as
to when the amendment will take effect in the county.
   C.   Processing Of Land Use Applications:
      1.   At least forty five (45) days prior to any Ada County public hearing
on any land use application for property within the Star area of city impact,
the Ada County development services department shall notify city of Star of the
land use application to be considered by the Ada County planning and zoning
commission or the board of Ada County commissioners. City of Star may provide,
prior to or at the hearing, a written recommendation to the Ada County
development services department director on such application, citing the city
of Star comprehensive plan policies, goals, objectives or provisions applicable
to such recommendation. Any recommendation from Star shall not be binding or
controlling on the county, but shall be treated as documentary evidence in the
hearing record, and be given due consideration.
      2.   The board of Ada County commissioners or the Ada County planning and
zoning commission shall not hold a public hearing on such application until
either the recommendation of city of Star has been received, or forty five (45)
days from the date notice of such application was sent to city of Star has
passed.
      3.   The Ada County department of development services shall notify city
of Star in writing of the final action on land use applications located within
the Star city area of city impact within fifteen (15) days following a decision
by either the county planning and zoning commission or board of Ada County
commissioners, as the case may be. (Ord. 413, 12-13-2000; amd. Ord. 596, 12-28-
2005)
9-6-5: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), the city of Star or
the board of Ada County commissioners may request, in writing, the
renegotiation of any provision of this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30)
days of receipt of such written request by either party, a meeting between the
two (2) jurisdictions shall occur.
   B.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance is
adopted by Star and Ada County, in accordance with the notice and hearing
procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code, or until a
declaratory judgment from the district court is final.
   C.   Amendments to this chapter shall be processed using the notice and
hearing requirements of Idaho Code 67-6509. (Ord. 413, 12-13-2000)
TITLE 10
IMPACT FEES
CHAPTER 1
PARTICIPATING FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT    DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
10-1-1:    Short Title, Applicability, Exemptions, And Purpose
10-1-2:    Definitions
10-1-3:    Establishment Of Fire District Service Areas; Imposition of Fire
District Impact Fee; Fee Schedule; Exemptions
10-1-4:    Collection Of Fire District Impact Fees; Enforcement
10-1-5:    Certification
10-1-6:    Individual Assessment
10-1-7:    Developer Credits And Reimbursement
10-1-8:    Methodology For The Calculation Of Fire District Impact Fees
10-1-9:    Extraordinary Impact
10-1-10: Fee Payer Refunds
10-1-11: Establishment Of Fire District Trust Funs; Trust Accounts
10-1-12: Expenditure Of Fire District Impact Fees
10-1-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
10-1-14: Periodic Reviews; Annual Budget
10-1-15: Audit
10-1-16: Joint Advisory Committee
10-1-17: Miscellaneous Provisions
10-1-18: Rules Of Construction
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, EXEMPTIONS, AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Ada
County Participating Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Findings: The Board of Ada County Commissioners finds that:
      1.   Within unincorporated Ada County, the County is experiencing
considerable growth and development.
      2.   The new growth and development occurring within unincorporated Ada
County will place ever-increasing demands on fire protection districts whose
boundaries include land in unincorporated Ada County to provide, improve and
expand existing fire protection districts' public safety facilities to serve
that new growth and development and the tax revenues generated from that new
growth and development often does not generate sufficient funds to provide the
necessary improvements and expansion of the public safety facilities to protect
the public health, safety and welfare. Those users that create the increased
demand should bear their proportionate share of the cost of public safety
facilities needed to serve the new growth and development.
      3.   Fire protection districts organized pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 31-
1401, et seq. do not have authority to make and adopt ordinances as a method of
carrying out their statutory duties.
      4.   The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act (Act) at Idaho Code §§ 67-8201,
et seq. requires an entity to adopt an ordinance in order to impose and collect
development impact fees.
      5.   The Act does provide, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8204A, in
circumstances where the County and the Participating Fire Protection Districts
are both affected by the considerable growth and development as is occurring
within the County, that the County and the Participating Fire Protection
Districts may enter into an intergovernmental agreement for the purpose of
agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for System Improvements
which provides for a new funding mechanism for those System Improvements Costs
incurred by the Participating Fire Protection Districts to meet the demand and
growth occurring within the County and which promotes and accommodates orderly
growth and development and protects the public health, safety and general
welfare of the people, residential and non-residential establishments within
the boundaries of the County.
      6.   The County has statutory authority to make and adopt ordinances
pursuant to Idaho Code § 31-714.
   C.   Authority: This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the County's general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the Act and other applicable laws of the state of Idaho to impose and
collect development impact fees on behalf of the Participating Fire Protection
Districts; and the County's and the Participating Fire Protection Districts'
authority to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement as provided for in Idaho
Code § 67-8204A when jointly affected by growth and development for the purpose
of agreeing to impose, collect and expend development impact fees in order for
new growth and development pay their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities to serve that new growth and development.
   D.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to the Development of property
located within the boundaries of a Participating Fire Protection District in
unincorporated Ada County.
   E.   Purpose: The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new residential
and non-residential development bears a proportionate share of the cost of
System Improvements; to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed
the cost of such System Improvements required to accommodate new Development;
and to ensure that funds collected from new Development are actually used for
System Improvements in accordance with the Act. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:  
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
 
                              To legally obligate by contract or otherwise
                              commit to the expenditure of funds by
APPROPRIATE:                  appropriation or other official act of the Board
                              of Commissioners of any Participating Fire
                              Protection District.
                              The Board of Commissioners of a Participating
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:       Fire Protection District, which is its governing
                              board.
                              The permit required for foundations, new
BUILDING PERMIT:              construction and additions pursuant to Chapter 2,
                              Title 7, Ada County Code.
                              Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years
                              or more, by new construction or other action,
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:         which increases the service capacity of a
                              Participating Fire Protection District's Capital
                              Facilities.
                              A component of the Capital Improvements Plan of
                              each Participating Fire Protection District
                              adopted by the Participating Fire Protection
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT: District and the County pursuant to Chapters 65
                              and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, as they may be
                              amended, which component meets the requirements
                              of the capital improvements plan required by the
                              Act.
 
               With respect to each Participating Fire Protection District, the Impact Fee
CAPITAL        Study and Capital Improvements Plan recommended by their Joint Advisory
IMPROVEMENTS   Committee and adopted by each Participating Fire Protection District and the
PLAN:          County that identifies Fire District Capital Facilities for which each
               Participating Fire Protection District's Impact Fees may be used as a funding
               source.
COUNTY:        Ada County, Idaho.
COUNTY BOARD
OF             The Board of Commissioners of Ada County.
COMMISSIONERS:
DEVELOPER:     Any person or legal entity undertaking Development and/or the subdivision of
               property pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as may be amended.
               Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in
               use of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or
DEVELOPMENT:   appearance of land, which creates additional demand and need for public
               facilities and/or subdivision of property that would permit any change in the
               use, character or appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT    Any written duly authorized document from the County which authorizes the
APPROVAL:      commencement of a Development.
               A requirement attached to a Developmental approval or other County governmental
DEVELOPMENT    action approving or authorizing a particular Development project including, but
REQUIREMENT:   not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
               contribution of goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
               Any structure, or portion thereof, providing living facilities for one family as
DWELLING UNIT: herein defined, including provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
               sanitation.
EXTRAORDINARY  Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
COSTS:
 
 
               An impact which is reasonably determined by the Participating Fire Protection
               District to:
               A.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements, the cost of
EXTRAORDINARY  which will significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be
IMPACT:        generated from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a
               development agreement as allowed by Idaho Code § 67-8214(2), as it may be
               amended; or
               B.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements which are not
               identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
               A.   A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
               marriage.
               B.   A group of not more than ten (10) persons who need not be related by
               blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
FAMILY:        C.   Eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or
               elderly persons residing in a dwelling unit who are supervised at the dwelling
               in connection with their handicap or age related infirmity, provided that no
               more than two (2) staff members reside in the dwelling unit at any one time.
               (Resident staff shall not be counted toward the "8 or fewer" criterion).
FEE PAYER      The person who pays or is required to pay a Participating Fire Protection
               District's Impact Fee. A fee payer may include a Developer.
FIRE DISTRICT  The Fire District Administrator of each Participating Fire Protection
ADMINISTRATOR: District, and their designee.
               Stations and equipment of each Participating Fire Protection District which is
FIRE DISTRICT  identified in Exhibit III-2 of each Participating Fire Protection District's
CAPITAL        Capital Improvements Plan as adopted by the County, and specifically including
FACILITIES:    those related costs including System Improvements Costs, but not including
               maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not expand their capacity.
 
 
               A payment of money imposed as condition of Development Approval to pay for a
               proportionate share of the costs of System Improvements needed to serve the
               Development. The term does not include the following:
               A.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
               associated with permits required for Development;
               B.   Connection or hookup charges;
FIRE DISTRICT  C.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
IMPACT FEE:    for services provided directly to the development; or
               D.   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the
               Participating Fire Protection District has incurred expenses in constructing
               Capital Improvements for the Development if the owner or developer has agreed to
               be financially responsible for the construction or installation of those Capital
               Improvements, unless a written agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-
               8209(3) as it may be amended, for credit or reimbursement.
               Shall mean and refer to each Participating Fire Protection District's
INTERGOVERNMEN intergovernmental agreement with the County pursuant to Idaho Code § 67 8204A for
TAL AGREEMENT: the collection and expenditure of Fire District Impact Fees established pursuant
               to this chapter.
               The County and each of the Participating Fire Protection District's Joint
JOINT ADVISORY Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee formed and staffed by each of the
COMMITTEE:     Participating Fire Protection Districts pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to
               prepare and recommend each Participating Fire Protection District's Capital
               Improvements Plan and any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
 
 
LAND USE      A description of the service area and projections of land uses,
ASSUMPTIONS:  densities, intensities and population in the service area over at
              least a ten (10) year period.
LEVEL OF      A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service
SERVICE:      demand for Public Facilities.
              A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home
              construction and safety standards, transportable in one (1) or
              more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) feet or
              more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or
              when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
              feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
MANUFACTURED/ used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
MOBILE HOME:  connected to required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
              heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in such
              structure, except that such term shall include any structure which
              meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
              requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
              voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of
              housing and urban development and complies with the standards
              established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401, et seq.
              Any building or building component other than a manufactured/
              mobile home, which is constructed according to the International
MODULAR       Building Code, as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of
BUILDING:     closed construction and is either entirely or substantially
              prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building
              site.
PARTICIPATING Shall mean and refer to a fire protection district organized and
FIRE          existing by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law, Chapter
PROTECTION    14, Title 31, Idaho Code and which has entered into an
DISTRICT:     intergovernmental agreement with the County for the collection and
              expenditure of development impact fees.
 
PARTICIPATING
FIRE
PROTECTION    Shall mean and refer to each Participating Fire Protection District's Trust
DISTRICT      Fund established by action of the Board of Commissioners of the Participating
DEVELOPMENT   Fire Protection District as set forth respectively in each Board of
IMPACT FEE    Commissioners' Resolutions and pursuant to § 10-1-11 of this chapter and Idaho
CAPITAL       Code § 67-8210(1) are the respective Trust Funds into which each Participating
PROJECTS      Fire Protection District's Impact Fees shall be deposited and maintained by the
TRUST FUND    Participating Fire Protection District.
(the "Trust
Fund"):
PRESENT       The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
VALUE:        contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or
              money.
PROJECT:      A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
              In contrast to System Improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities
PROJECT       that are planned and designed to provide service for a particular Development
IMPROVEMENTS: Project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
              users of the Project.
PROPORTIONATE That portion of System Improvements Costs determined pursuant to Idaho Code §
SHARE:        67-8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the
              Project.
PUBLIC        Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection, emergency medical and
FACILITIES:   rescue, and water supply production, storage and distribution facilities which
              have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL  A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for
VEHICLE:      recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or
              is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
              Land within the boundaries of a Participating Fire Protection District within
              unincorporated Ada County as established pursuant Chapter 14, Title 31, Idaho
SERVICE AREA: Code, in which specific Public Facilities provide service to Development on the
              basis of sound planning or engineering principles or both as identified in the
              Participating Fire Protection District's Capital Improvements Plan.
 
 
              A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable
              to an individual unit of Development calculated in accordance with generally
SERVICE UNIT: accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of Capital
              Improvements. As specifically used in this Ordinance, service units include all
              dwelling units as defined herein and includes, on the square foot basis,
              nonresidential Development.
              In contrast to Project Improvements, shall mean Capital Improvements to Public
SYSTEM        Facilities which are designed to provide service to a Service Area. For the
IMPROVEMENTS: purpose of this chapter, System Improvements are for Participating Fire
              Protection District Capital Facilities.
              Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of System Improvements,
              including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including,
              without limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code § 50 1702(h), as it
              may be amended, to provide additional Public Facilities needed to service new
              growth and Development. For clarification, System Improvements Costs do not
              include:
              A.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of Public Facilities other than
              Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan;
              B.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
SYSTEM        C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
IMPROVEMENTS  serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:        environmental or regulatory standards;
              D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
              provide better service to existing Development;
              E.   Administrative and operating costs of the Participating Fire Protection
              District and/or the County unless such costs are attributable to Development of
              the Capital Improvements Plan, as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8208, as it may be
              amended; and
              F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
              indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
              Participating Fire Protection District to finance Capital Improvements identified
              in the Capital Improvements Plan.
 
 
                Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within each of the
TRUST ACCOUNTS: Participating Fire Protection District's Impact Fee Capital
                Projects Trust Fund as established in this chapter. (Ord. 904,
                12-18-2019)
 
10-1-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DISTRICT SERVICE AREAS; IMPOSITION OF FIRE
DISTRICT IMPACT FEE; FEE SCHEDULE; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Establishment of Participating Fire Protection District Service Areas.
There is hereby established a Service Area for each of the Participating Fire
Protection Districts which Service Area includes all land in unincorporated Ada
County within the boundaries of each Participating Fire Protection District as
established pursuant to chapter 14, title 31, Idaho Code.
   B.   Imposition of Fire District Impact Fees. Fire District Impact Fees for
each Participating Fire Protection District is hereby imposed on all new
Development located within the boundaries of the Participating Fire Protection
District in unincorporated Ada County.
   C.   Fee Schedule. Each Participating Fire Protection District's Impact Fees
shall be calculated in accordance with the fee schedule set forth below
providing for standard fees based on the total number of Dwelling Units or
square feet of nonresidential space in the Development, unless (a) the Fee
Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section 10-1-6 of this
chapter; or (b) the Participating Fire Protection District finds the
Development will have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to section 10-1-9 of
this chapter. The methodology for determining the costs per service unit
provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in each Participating Fire
Protection District's Capital Improvements Plan as adopted by the County
pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8208, as it may be amended.
      1.   Participating Fire Protection District Impact Fee Schedule:
         a.   North Ada County Fire & Rescue District Impact Fee:
            (1)   Single-Family Residential (per dwelling unit): $879.00.
            (2)   Multi-Family Residential (per dwelling unit): $591.00.
            (3)   Industrial (per 1,000 square feet): $214.00.
            (4)   Retail (per 1,000 square feet): $1,238.00.
            (5)   Office (per 1,000 square feet): $477.00.
            (6)   Institutional (per 1,000 square feet): $474.00.
         b.   Eagle Fire Protection District Impact Fee:
            (1)   Single-Family Residential (per dwelling unit): $2,111.00.
            (2)   Multi-Family Residential (per dwelling unit): $1,108.00.
            (3)   Industrial (per 1,000 square feet): $481.00.
            (4)   Retail (per 1,000 square feet): $2,779.00.
            (5)   Office (per 1,000 square feet): $1,071.00.
            (6)   Institutional (per 1,000 square feet): $1,064.00.
         c.   Kuna Rural Fire District Impact Fee:
            (1)   Residential (per Dwelling Unit): $1,792.00.
            (2)   Industrial (per 1,000 square feet): $531.00.
            (3)   Retail (per 1,000 square feet): $788.00.
            (4)   Office (per 1,000 square feet): $753.00.
         d.   Star Fire Protection District Impact Fee:
            (1)   Single-Family Residential (per dwelling unit): $2,152.00.
            (2)   Multi-Family Residential (per dwelling unit): $1,227.00.
            (3)   Industrial (per 1,000 square feet): $145.00.
            (4)   Retail (per 1,000 square feet): $839.00.
            (5)   Office (per 1,000 square feet): $323.00.
            (6)   Institutional (per 1,000 square feet): $582.00.
         e.   Whitney Fire Protection District Impact Fee:
            (1)   Single-Family Residential (per dwelling unit): $1,058.00.
            (2)   Multi-Family Residential (per dwelling unit); $868.00.
            (3)   Industrial (per 1,000 square feet): $381.00.
            (4)   Retail (per 1,000 square feet): $1,121.00.
            (5)   Office (per 1,000 square feet): $815.00.
            (6)   Institutional (per 1,000 square feet): $804.00.
   D.   Developer's Election. A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project's proportionate share of System Improvements Costs by payment of Fire
District Impact Fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment
of the Development project's proportionate share of System Improvements Costs,
except as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8214(3), as it may be amended.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit: Upon submittal of complete building permit plans or
manufactured home installation permit for the Development to the County, the
County shall calculate the Fire District Impact Fee for the Development within
thirty (30) days of submittal unless:
         a.   The Fee Payer had previously requested and been granted an
individual assessment pursuant to this chapter; or
         b.   The Participating Fire Protection District has previously
determined the Development may have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of Service Units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
Service Units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of Service Units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either: (a) a modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle was legally in place on the
lot or space prior to the effective date of this chapter; or (b) a Fire
District Impact Fee has been paid previously for the modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
   G.   Exemption Claim Process. A Fee Payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application of a building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit, or if no building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit required, prior to the time construction commences. Any
exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. Claims for
exemption shall be determined by the County within fifteen (15) days of receipt
of the claim for exemption.
(Ord. 904, 12-18-2019; amd. Ord. 961, 10-11-2023; amd. Ord. 983, 10-9-2024;
amd. Ord. 985, 11-6-2024)
10-1-4: COLLECTION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Payment of Fees. The Fire District Impact Fee shall be paid either to
the County or to the Participating Fire Protection District at the following
times:
      1.   If a Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then before or at the time the permit is issued;
      2.   If no Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the Fee Payer or Developer and the Fire
District have agreed upon in writing with notice to the County.
   B.   Enforcement. When any Fire District Impact Fee is due pursuant to this
chapter, or pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a Fee Payer
and the Participating Fire Protection District, and such Fire District Impact
Fee has not been paid in a timely manner, the County may exercise any or all of
the following powers as applicable to its authority, in any combination, to
enforce the collection of the Fire District Impact Fee:
      1.   Withhold Building Permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other County Development Approval related to the Development for which the
Fire District Impact Fee is due until all Fire District Impact Fees due have
been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a Building Permit;
      2.   Withhold utility services from the Development for which the Fire
District Impact Fee is due until all Fire District Impact Fees due have been
paid;
      3.   Add interest to the Fire District Impact Fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104, as it may be amended, plus
five percent (5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire
District Impact Fee was due until paid in full;
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total Fire District
Impact Fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per
month beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District Impact
Fee was due until paid in full; and
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay a Fire District Impact Fee following the procedures
contained in Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5.
   C.   In the event a Fire District Impact Fee is paid to the Participating
Fire Protection District, then the Fire District Administrator shall
immediately notify the County of said payment.
   D.   All Fire District Impact Fees paid to the County shall be transferred
to the Fire District Administrator on a once-a-month basis. (Ord. 904, 12-18-
2019)
10-1-5: CERTIFICATION:
   A.   A Fee Payer may request a written certification of the impact fee
schedule or individual assessment which shall establish the impact fee for that
Development. Such certification shall establish the Fire District Impact Fee so
long as there is no material change to the particular Development as identified
in the individual assessment application, or the impact fee schedule. A
certification may be applied for in the following manner:
   B.   Requests for certification shall be in writing and made to the
applicable Fire District Administrator. Within thirty (30) days after receiving
such request, the Fire District Administrator shall issue a written
certification of the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee due for the
proposed Development. The certification shall include an explanation of the
calculation of the Fire District Impact Fee including an explanation of factors
considered under Idaho Code § 67-8207 and shall also specify the System
Improvement(s) for which the Fire District Impact Fee is intended to be used.
The Fire District Administrator shall provide the certification to the Fee
Payer and the County. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee using
the impact fee schedules in section
10-1-3  of this chapter, an individual assessment of Impact Fees is permitted.
      1.   Individual Assessment Process: A Fee Payer may file a written
request for an individual assessment of the Development by the Participating
Fire Protection District with the Fire District Administrator prior to the
receipt of a building permit or other necessary approvals or entitlements from
Ada County. A request for an individual assessment process shall involve
consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant information submitted by
the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee.
         a.   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the Fee Payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the applicable
Participating Fire Protection District's Capital Improvements Plan, shall use
an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology, and shall document the
relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
         b.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Fire District
Administrator may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by
the Fire District Administrator as the basis for calculating the Fire District
Impact Fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with
modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is a more accurate
measure of demand for System Improvements element(s) created by the proposed
Development, or the costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in
the fee schedule, based on the standards in Section 67-8207, Idaho Code.
         c.   The Fire District Administrator shall issue a written decision
within thirty (30) days following receipt of a completed request for individual
assessment together with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as
not to unreasonably delay the Developer's (Fee Payer's) subsequent applications
to the County for Building Permits.
         d.   The decision by the Fire District Administrator on an application
for an individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of
the Fire District Impact Fee, shall specify the System Improvement(s) for which
the Fire District Impact Fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code § 67 8207.
         e.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the Fire District Administrator then the Fire District Impact
Fee due under this chapter for such Development shall be calculated according
to such individual assessment.
         f.   The Fire District Administrator shall provide notice of final
determination of an individual assessment to the Fee Payer and Ada County.
10-1-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   When a Developer or their predecessor in title or interest has
constructed System Improvements of the same category as a Participating Fire
Protection District's Capital Improvements Element, or contributed or dedicated
land or money towards the completion of System Improvements of the same
category as the Participating Fire Protection District's Capital Improvements
Element, and the Participating Fire Protection District has accepted such
construction, contribution or dedication, the Participating Fire Protection
District shall issue a credit against the Participating Fire Protection
District's Impact Fees otherwise due for the same Participating Fire Protection
District's Capital Improvements Element in connection with the proposed
Development, as set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication to System Improvements was required by
the Participating Fire Protection District as a condition of Development
Approval or was offered by the Developer and accepted by the Participating Fire
Protection District in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or
dedication was contributed by the Developer or by a local improvement district
controlled by the Developer.
   B.   Credits against a Fire District Impact Fee shall not be given for: (a)
Project Improvements; or (b) any construction, contribution or dedication not
agreed to in writing by the Participating Fire Protection District prior to
commencement of the construction, contribution, or dedication. Credits issued
for one Fire District Capital Improvements Element may not be used to reduce
Fire District Impact Fees due for a different capital improvement. No credits
shall be issued for System Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Prior contributions may only be taken into
account pursuant to an individual assessment.
   C.   Valuation of Credit at Present Value:
      1.   Land: Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee
Payer's option, be valued at the present value of: (a) one hundred percent
(100%) of the most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records
of the county assessor; or (b) that fair market value established by a private
appraiser acceptable to the Participating Fire Protection District in an
appraisal paid for by the Fee Payer.
      2.   Improvements: Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the Participating Fire Protection
District at the present value of such improvements based on complete
engineering drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates submitted
by the Fee Payer to the Participating Fire Protection District. The Fire
District Administrator shall determine the amount of credit due based on the
information submitted, or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate
or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable
to the Participating Fire Protection District as a more accurate measure of the
value of the offered System Improvements to the Participating Fire Protection
District.
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land: Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the Participating Fire Protection District
in a form acceptable to the Participating Fire Protection District, at no cost
to the Participating Fire Protection District, and has been accepted by the
Participating Fire Protection District. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the
Participating Fire Protection District shall issue a letter stating the amount
of credit available.
      2.   Improvements: Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when (a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the Participating Fire
Protection District, (b) a suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been
received and approved by the Participating Fire Protection District, and (c)
all design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and acceptance
procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable requirements
of the Participating Fire Protection District and the state of Idaho. Upon
request of the Fee Payer, the Participating Fire Protection District shall
issue a letter stating the amount of credit available.
   E.   Credit Request Process:
      1.   Request: In order to obtain a credit against a Fire District Impact
Fee otherwise due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the Fire District Administrator
a written offer of request to dedicate to the Participating Fire Protection
District specific parcels of qualifying land or a written offer to contribute
or construct specific System Improvements to the Fire District Capital
Facilities in accordance with all applicable State or County design and
construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit against the
type of Fire District Impact Fee for which the land dedication or System
Improvements is offered.
      2.   Review: After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the Fire District Administrator shall review the request and determine whether
the land or System Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing Fire District Capital Facilities by an amount at least equal to the
value of the credit. If the Fire District Administrator determines that the
offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be acceptable to the
Participating Fire Protection District's Board of Commissioners, then the
credit shall be issued. The Participating Fire Protection District shall
complete its review and determination of an application within thirty (30) days
after receipt of an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due: If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to subsection
10-1-7 D exceeds the Fire District Impact Fee that would otherwise be due from
the Fee Payer pursuant to the chapter (whether calculated through the Impact
Fee schedule in section
10-1-3  of this chapter or through an individual assessment), the Fee Payer may
choose to receive such credit in the form of either:
         a.   A credit against future Fire District Impact Fee due for the same
System Improvements; or
         b.   A reimbursement from Fire District Impact Fees paid by future
Development that impacts the System Improvements contributed or dedicated by
the Fee Payer. Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the
Participating Fire Protection District shall be under no obligation to use any
of the Participating Fire Protection District funds - other than Fire District
Impact Fees paid by other Development for the same System Improvements - to
reimburse the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of Fire District Impact Fees
that are due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required: If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the Participating Fire Protection District
shall enter into a written agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good
faith, prior to the contribution, dedication, or funding of the System
Improvements giving rise to the credit. The agreement shall provide for the
amount of credit or the amount, time and form of reimbursement, and shall have
a term not exceeding ten (10) years.
      5.   The Fire District Administrator's determination on the written offer
of request for credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and the County. (Ord.
904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Accounting Principles: The calculation of the Fire District Impact
Fee shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or Developers within the service
area other than the Fee Payer.
      2.   Levels Of Service: The Fire District Impact Fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for Public Facilities in the applicable
adopted Capital Improvement Plan that are applicable to existing Development as
well as new growth and Development. The construction, improvement, expansion or
enlargement of new or existing Public Facilities for which the Fire District
Impact Fee is imposed must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by
the new Development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology. The Fire District Impact Fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the System Improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8207, as it may be amended. Fire
District Impact Fees shall be based on actual System Improvements Costs or
reasonable estimates of such costs. The amount of the Fire District Impact Fee
shall be calculated using the methodology contained in the adopted Capital
Improvements Plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination.
      1.   The Fire District Impact Fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the Fire District Impact Fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
Participating Fire Protection District in the provision of System Improvements
to serve the new Development. The proportionate share is the costs attributable
to the new Development after the Participating Fire Protection District
considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of System Improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
Participating Fire Protection District to System Improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the Participating Fire Protection District and accounted for in
the calculation of the Participating Fire Protection District's Impact Fee:
         a.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvements Costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvements Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing System Improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT:
   A.   A Participating Fire Protection District may make an initial
determination that Development may impose an Extraordinary Impact due to a
review of a development application transmitted by the County to a
Participating Fire District pursuant to the County's zoning authority under the
Local Land Use Planning Act, chapter 65, title 67, Idaho Code.
   B.   Process:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after Fire District Administrator's receipt
from the County of the development application, the Fire District Administrator
will notify the Fee Payer and the County of the Fire District Administrator's
initial determination that the Development may impose an Extraordinary Impact.
Such notice shall include that a supplemental study, at the Fee Payer's expense
will be required.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development
with Extraordinary Impact, the Fire District Administrator shall meet with the
Fee Payer to discuss whether the Fee Payer wants to:
         a.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the System
Improvements Costs related to the proposed Development;
         b.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or
         c.   Withdraw the application for certification, or Development
approval.
      3.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required
to document the proposed Development's proportionate share of System
Improvements Costs, then the Participating Fire Protection District and the Fee
Payer shall jointly select an individual or organization acceptable to both to
perform such study. The Fee Payer shall enter into a written agreement with
such individual or organization to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement
shall require the supplemental study to be completed within thirty (30) days of
such written agreement, unless the Fee Payer agrees to a longer time.
      4.   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to:
         a.   Pay the proportionate share of System Improvements Costs
documented by the supplemental study; or
         b.   Modify the proposed Development to reduce such costs; or
         c.   Withdraw the application. The Fire District Administrator shall
notify the County of the Fee Payer's choice within fifteen (15) days of the Fee
Payer's decision.
      5.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the System Improvements Costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the Participating Fire Protection District and the Fee Payer
prior to review and consideration of any application for any Development
approval or Building Permit related to the proposed Development. The Fire
District Administrator shall provide a copy of the agreement to the County
within fifteen (15) days after the agreement has been signed by both parties.
      6.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the
proportionate share of System Improvements Costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the County to approve
Development that results in an Extraordinary Impact to the Participating Fire
Protection District. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   A Participating Fire Protection District's Impact Fee shall be
refunded to a Fee Payer, or successor in interest, or a property owner in the
following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied or abandoned;
         c.   The Fee Payer pays a Fire District Impact Fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the
Participating Fire Protection District was entitled to receive;
         d.   The Participating Fire Protection District has collected a Fire
District Impact Fee and the Participating Fire Protection District has failed
to Appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to
10-1-10 .A.2 below; or
         e.   Failure of the Participating Fire Protection District to commence
construction or encumber the fund in the Participating Fire Protection
District's Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund.
      2.   Any Fire District Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the
Participating Fire Protection District has failed to commence construction of
System Improvements in accordance with this chapter, or to appropriate funds
for such construction, within eight (8) years after the date on which such fee
was collected by the Participating Fire Protection District. Any refund due
shall be paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the Participating
Fire Protection District's Impact Fee was paid. The Participating Fire
Protection District may hold Fire District Impact Fees for longer than eight
(8) years but in no event longer than eleven (11) years from the date collected
if the Participating Fire Protection District identifies in writing: (a) a
reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight (8) years; and
(b) an anticipated date by which the fees will be expended. If the
Participating Fire Protection District complies with the previous sentence,
then any Fire District Impact Fees so identified shall be refunded to the Fee
Payer if the Participating Fire Protection District has failed to commence
construction of System Improvements in accordance with the written notice, or
to Appropriate Funds for such construction on or before the date identified in
such writing.
      3.   After a Fire District Impact Fee has been paid pursuant to this
chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the County, no
refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee
was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
      4.   Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal
rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
originally paid.
   B.   Process: The Participating Fire Protection District shall make a
determination of whether a refund is due within thirty (30) days after receipt
of a written request for a refund from the Fee Payer, successor in interest, or
an owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid. When the right
to a refund exists, the Participating Fire Protection District shall send the
refund within ninety (90) days after the Participating Fire Protection District
determines that a refund is due. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DISTRICT TRUST FUNDS; TRUST ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Trust Funds Established: The Trust Fund established by each
Participating Fire Protection District will be maintained by the Participating
Fire Protection District for the purpose of ensuring that all Fire District
Impact Fees collected, pursuant to this chapter, are used to address impacts
reasonably attributable to new Development for which the Fire District Impact
Fees are paid. The Trust Fund shall be divided into the Trust Accounts. All
funds in all Trust Accounts in the Trust Fund shall be maintained in an
interest bearing account. The interests earned on each Trust Account pursuant
to Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by Idaho Code § 57-127, as it
may be amended, but shall be considered funds of the Trust Accounts and shall
be subject to the same restrictions on uses of funds as the Fire District
Impact Fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Fire District Impact Fees: All monies paid by a Fee Payer,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be identified as Fire District Impact Fees and
upon receipt by the Participating Fire Protection District shall be promptly
deposited by the Fire District Administrator in the appropriate Trust Accounts
of the Trust Fund.
      1.   Monies in each Trust Account shall be spent in the order collected,
on a first-in/first-out basis.
      2.   The Participating Fire Protection District shall maintain and keep
accurate financial records for each of their Trust Accounts which records
shall:
         a.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
         b.   Account for all monies received;
         c.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from each Trust Account
shall be used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified
in the Capital Improvements Plan; and
         d.   Provide an annual accounting for each Fire District Impact Fee
Trust Account showing the source and amount of all funds collected and the
projects that were funded, which annual accounting shall be provided to the
County as part of the annual audit process of this chapter. (Ord. 904, 12-18-
2019)
10-1-12: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures. Expenditures of Fire District Impact Fees collected and
deposited in the Trust Fund shall be made only for System Improvements within
the Service Area for which the Impact Fee was collected in accordance with the
Capital Improvements Plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge. A portion of each
Impact Fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of
the Participating Fire Protection District for the cost of preparing the
Capital Improvements Plan in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8208. The
surcharge shall not exceed the Development's proportionate share of the cost of
preparing the Capital Improvements Plan. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals. Any Fee Payer that is or may be obligated to pay a Fire
District Impact Fee, individual assessment or an Extraordinary Impact, or that
claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or credit under
this chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision made either by the County
or by the Fire District Administrator in applying this chapter, may appeal such
decision. The Fee Payer shall have the burden on appeal of demonstrating that
the decision was in error.
   B.   Appeal Process.
      1.   Appeals of denials of an exemption from Impact Fees under section
10-1-3  of this chapter.
         a.   A Fee Payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
Ada County Development Services Department within thirty (30) days after the
date of a denial of an exemption. Such notice of appeal shall include a
statement describing why the Fee Payer believes that the appealed decision was
in error, together with copies of any documents that the Fee Payer believes
support the claim.
         b.   The Ada County Development Services Department shall schedule a
hearing in front of the County Board of Commissioners within thirty (30) days
of receiving the appeal. The Fee Payer or its representative shall have a right
to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The County
personnel who made the decision under appeal or their representatives shall
likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in support of the
decision.
         c.   The County Board of Commissioners shall consider the decision
denying the exemption and also consider any additional evidence that may be
offered by the Fee Payer and County staff. The County Board of Commissioners
may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision appealed from
and issue a written decision within thirty (30) days.
         d.   A final decision of the County Board of Commissioners may be
judicially reviewed pursuant to Idaho Code § 31-1506.
      2.   Appeals of impact fee schedule assessments, refunds, reimbursements,
credits, individual assessments, or extraordinary impacts under this chapter.
         a.   The Fee Payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
Fire District Administrator within thirty (30) days after the date of the Fire
District Administrator's decision, or the date on which the Fee Payer submitted
a payment of the Fire District Impact Fee under protest, whichever is later.
Such written application shall include a statement describing why the Fee Payer
believes that the appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any
documents that the Fee Payer believes support the claim.
         b.   The Participating Fire Protection District's Board of
Commissioners, shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after receipt of a
written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer or its representative shall have a
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The Fire
District Administrator who made the decision under appeal or its
representatives shall likewise have the right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the
Participating Fire Protection District's Board of Commissioners in considering
the appeal shall be whether: (a) the decision or interpretation made by the
Fire District Administrator; or (b) the alternative decision or interpretation
offered by the Fee Payer, more accurately reflects the intent of this chapter
that new development in the Service Area pay its proportionate share of the
costs of system improvements to Fire District facilities necessary to serve new
development and whether the chapter has been correctly applied. The
Participating Fire Protection District's Board of Commissioners shall issue a
decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within
thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal.
   C.   Payment Under Protest: A Fee Payer may pay a Fire District Impact Fee
under protest in order not to delay in the issuance of a Building Permit by the
County. A Fee Payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be
estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally
collected.
   D.   Mediation.
      1.   Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with a decision made by the
County or a decision made by the Fire District Administrator regarding a Fire
District Impact Fee determination that is or may be due for a proposed
Development pursuant to this chapter, may enter into a voluntary agreement with
the County, or the Participating Fire Protection District, as the case may be,
to subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both parties to the mediation.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request
for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal
could be filed pursuant to this section.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the parties to the mediation, the Participating Fire
Protection District, or the County, and a written agreement regarding the
payment of such costs shall be executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the Fee
Payer retains all rights of appeal as set forth in this section. (Ord. 904, 12-
18-2019)
10-1-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS; ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan. Unless the Board
of Commissioners of a Participating Fire Protection District deems some other
period is appropriate, the Board of Commissioners of a Participating Fire
Protection District shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from
the date of the original adoption of the Capital Improvements Plan, review the
Development potential and update the Capital Improvements Plan in cooperation
with the County and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho Code §
67-8206, as it may be amended. Each update shall be prepared by the Fire
District Administrator in consultation with the Joint Development Impact Fee
Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual budget. Each Participating Fire Protection District shall
annually adopt a capital budget and deliver a copy to the County within 30 days
of adoption. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-15: AUDIT: 
As part of its annual audit process, each Participating Fire Protection
District shall prepare and forward to the County an annual report:
   A.   Describing the amount of all Fire District Impact Fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year by category of Public Facility;
and
   B.   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the Fire District Impact Fees collected, appropriated or spent for System
Improvements during the preceding year by Systems Improvements category of Fire
District Capital Facilities. (Ord. 904, 12-18-2019)
10-1-16: JOINT ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   Any Joint Advisory Committee that is created with any Participating Fire
Protection District is established pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Participating Fire Protection District
pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 67-8204A and 67-8405, as they may be amended.
(Ord. 904, 12-18-2019; amd. Ord. 992, 1-15-2025)
10-1-17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any Participating Fire Protection
District from requiring a Developer to construct reasonable Project
Improvements, as are required by the fire codes and other rules that are
adopted by the state fire marshal, in conjunction with a Development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for System Improvements Costs incurred by a Developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project
Improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development project.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the County to approve
Development which results in an Extraordinary Impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate and Participating Fire
Protection District to approve any Development request which may reasonably be
expected to reduce levels of service below minimum acceptable levels
established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the County in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the County of
the power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Each Participating Fire Protection District shall develop a plan for
alternative sources of revenue, which shall include but not necessarily be
limited to plans generated during each Participating Fire Protection District's
annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, and
implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees and other forms
of revenue.
   H.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
Project for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been
received by the County, prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall not
be subject to the Fire District Impact Fee imposed by this chapter. If the
resulting Building Permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and the new Building Permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of
Service Uunits more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the
original Building Permit, then the Fire District Impact Fee may be charged on
the difference in density, intensity, development size or number of Service
Units between the original and the revised or replacement Building Permit.
   I.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
System Improvements within such Capital Improvements Plan and not expended or
refunded pursuant to this chapter shall be retained in the same account until
the next Participating Fire Protection District fiscal year.
   J.   If the Participating Fire Protection District discovers an error in the
Capital Improvements Plan that results in assessment or payment of more than a
proportionate share of System Improvements Costs on any proposed Development,
the Fire District Administrator shall:
      1.   Adjust the Fire District Impact Fee to collect no more than a
proportionate share; or
      2.   Discontinue the collection of any Fire District Impact Fees until
the error is corrected by ordinance.
   K.   If Fire District Impact Fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake
or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a Fee
Payer shall be refunded by the Participating Fire Protection District within
thirty (30) days after the Participating Fire Protection District's acceptance
of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in
Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. Any amounts
underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the Participating Fire Protection
District within thirty (30) days after the Fire District Administrator's
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the
case of an underpayment to the Participating Fire Protection District, the Fire
District Administrator may request the County and the County may withhold
issuance of the Building Permits or Development Approval for the project for
which the Fire District Impact Fee was paid until such underpayment is
corrected, and if amounts owed to the Participating Fire Protection District
are not paid within such thirty-day (30) period, the Fire District
Administrator may also ask the County to and the County may revoke any Building
Permits or Development Approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of
such Fire District Impact Fee and refund such fee to the Fee Payer. (Ord. 904,
12-18-2019)
10-1-18: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:  
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the Ada County Board of Commissioners and each Board of Commissioners of the
Participating Fire Protection Districts may be fully carried out. (Ord. 904,
12-18-2019)
TITLE 11
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS
CHAPTER 1
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Applicability
11-1-5: Process
11-1-6: Required Findings
11-1-7: Expansion, Reduction, Renewal, And Termination
11-1-8: Agriculture Protection Area Commission
11-1-1: TITLE:
   Upon adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this title is declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Agriculture Protection Area
ordinance of Ada County. This title shall be known and cited as the ADA COUNTY
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ORDINANCE. The Ada County agriculture protection
area ordinance is published by authority of the Board, and it shall be kept up
to date as provided in section 1-1-3 of this Code. Within this document, the
Ada County Agriculture Protection Area ordinance shall be referred to as "this
title".
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of the Agriculture Protection Area title is to provide an
opportunity to protect and enhance the economic and cultural benefits that
working lands, including farms, ranches, and forests, provide to Idahoans by
promoting proactive planning tools for working landowners and governing bodies
to maintain and enhance the economic value of working lands without impacting
the property of those that elect not to participate in this opportunity.
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code, or on forest
land as defined in section 63-1701, Idaho Code.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA: Specific parcels of land in a designated
geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this chapter for the
purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION: The advisory board to the governing
body created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho Code.
APPLICANT: Anyone who owns five (5) contiguous acres or more of land that has
been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3)
consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of sections 63-604 and 63-
1701, Idaho Code, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an
agricultural protection area.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT (ACI): Area designated by county ordinance where city
growth and development are expected to occur.
HARDSHIP: A situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an agricultural
protection area has no control and can then petition for removal for reasons
that include but are not limited to an adverse result in litigation against the
farm or landowner, death of a close family member that would lead to
unanticipated financial hardships, significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy due
to another person's fraud, or any other illegal activity.
PROPOSAL: Written documents submitted to a governing body or agricultural
protection area commission from a landowner regarding his property.
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
11-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The subject property is a minimum of five (5) acres; and
   B.   The subject property has been in active agricultural or forest
production for a minimum of three (3) consecutive years consistent with the
provisions of sections 63-604 and 63-1701 of Idaho Code.
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
11-1-5: PROCESS:
   A.   Application: The following items must be submitted to the Development
Services Department to initiate consideration of APA Designation:
      1.   Completed application form.
      2.   Description of the property to be included in the APA.
      3.   Detailed letter describing the property, uses and explaining how the
proposal complies with required findings.
      4.   Evidence demonstrating active agricultural production for the last
three (3) years.
      5.   Application fee.
   B.   Timeline: Upon receipt of a completed application to establish an
agriculture protection area, the Agriculture Protection Area Commission shall
review the proposal and make a recommendation to the Board within sixty (60)
days. Failure to act within this period will result in automatic approval of
the request.
   C.   Public Hearing: The Board of County Commissioners will hold a public
hearing within sixty (60) days of receiving the APA Commission's
recommendation. Notice will be provided in accordance with Idaho Code 67-6509
and Section 8-7A-5 of Ada County Code. The Board may approve or deny the
application based on compliance with the required findings.
   D.   Recording: Approved APAs must be recorded with the Ada County
Recorder's Office including a legal description of the parcels and the findings
of the Board of Ada County Commissioners.
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
11-1-6: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   The subject property is a minimum of five (5) acres;
   B.   The subject property has been in active agricultural or forest
production for a minimum of three (3) consecutive years consistent with the
provisions of sections 63-604 and 63-1701 of Idaho Code;
   C.   The subject property possesses a designation on the adopted Future Land
Use Map supportive of agriculture or forest land;
   D.   Designating the subject property as an Agriculture Protection Area
shall not impede the expansion of an existing area of city impact;
   E.   Designating the subject property as an Agriculture Protection Area
shall not conflict with existing city annexation or development plans or
agreements;
   F.   Designating the subject property as an Agriculture Protection Area
shall not conflict with planned transportation corridors or future public
rights of way;
   G.   Designating the subject property as an Agriculture Protection Area
shall not conflict with planned airport expansion or development; and
   H.   Designating the subject property as an Agriculture Protection Area
shall not conflict with planned development with existing entitlements.
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
11-1-7: EXPANSION, REDUCTION, RENEWAL, AND TERMINATION:
   The expansion, reduction, renewal or termination of an existing Agriculture
Protection Area shall follow the same application, review, and hearing
procedures outlined in this title. The subject property is a minimum of five
(5) acres;
   A.   Expansion: Any expansion of an Agriculture Protection Area shall be
contiguous to the previously approved Agriculture Protection Area.
   B.   Reduction: A landowner wishing to reduce an Agriculture Protection Area
prior to completion of a twenty (20) year term must request in writing a
meeting with the Board. The meeting request shall include proof of the
hardship, as defined in section 11-1-3, necessary for reducing the Agriculture
Protection Area.
   C.   Renewal: Lands designated as an Agriculture Protection Area will remain
so designated for a period of twenty (20) years. A landowner wishing to end an
approved Agriculture Protection Area designation after twenty (20) years must
notify the Board in writing ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the
Agriculture Protection Area.
   D.   Termination: A landowner wishing to terminate an Agriculture Protection
Area prior to completion of a twenty (20) year term must request in writing a
meeting with the Board. The meeting request shall include proof of the
hardship, as defined in section 8-3X-2, necessary for terminating the
Agriculture Protection Area.
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
11-1-8: AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   The Agriculture Protection Area Commission is created at the
discretion of the Ada County Board of Commissioners and shall provide for
meetings and hearings to obtain advice on the agricultural needs of the county.
The commission may also conduct informal meetings with public officials and
agencies, agricultural professionals, educational professionals, and other
organizations to evaluate the agricultural needs of the county.
      2.   The Agriculture Protection Area Commission may make recommendations
to the Board of County Commissioners concerning the process by which the
agricultural protection area commission will accept, review, and offer
recommendations regarding agricultural protection area proposals to the board
of county commissioners, including the nature and type of information provided
by applicants and the evaluation criteria required to review agricultural
protection area applications.
      3.   The Agriculture Protection Area Commission shall review applications
for inclusion in an agricultural protection area pursuant to the county
agricultural protection area ordinance and make recommendations to the Board of
County Commissioners regarding such applications.
      4.   The Agriculture Protection Area Commission shall review applications
to include eligible land in an agricultural protection area and make
recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners within sixty (60) days of
receiving such applications.
   B.   Bylaws: The bylaws shall contain procedures and requirements for
commission membership, election of officers, meetings, rules of order, and
voting.
   C.   Disqualification Of Commission Members: Members may be recommended for
removal to the Board of Ada County Commissioners by a majority vote of the
members of the APAC, or upon majority vote of the Ada County Board of
Commissioners. Cause may include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Excessive conflicts of interest or continued conflicts of interest
which interfere with the member's ability to perform his duties as interpreted
by the Board of Ada County Commissioners.
      2.   False or misrepresenting statements by a member at the time of
application and appointment.
(Ord. 989, 12-18-2024)
 
