CITY CODE
OF
BELLEVUE, IDAHO
2018
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-08, passed July 28, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Bellevue, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-08, passed July 28, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-07
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BELLEVUE, IDAHO, AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 5 OF THE
BELLEVUE CITY CODE TO PROHIBIT NON-PREPARED FOOD MOBILE VENDORS, TO RESTRICT
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS TO THE BUSINESS (B) ZONE, AND TO AMEND HOURS OF OPERATION;
PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
   
WHEREAS, the City of Bellevue is a municipal corporation operating under the
laws of the State of Idaho; and
WHEREAS, Idaho Code § 50-307 authorizes cities to license, regulate, and
control all businesses and occupations carried on within municipal limits, and
to establish conditions under which such licenses may be issued or revoked; and
WHEREAS, The City of Bellevue (“City) finds it necessary to prohibit non-
prepared food mobile vending in all zones and to restrict prepared mobile food
vending to the Business Zone, to ensure land use compatibility, promote orderly
commerce, and safeguard the public interest; and
WHEREAS, the Bellevue Common Council finds that these regulations will assist
in preserving the character of its neighborhoods, improving pedestrian and
traffic safety, and preventing incompatible land uses outside designated zones;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BELLEVUE, IDAHO:
SECTION 1: AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 5
Title 3 Chapter 5 of the Bellevue City Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:
3-5-1: MOBILE FOOD VENDOR BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
A mobile food vendor business license shall be required for each mobile food
vendor located within the City of Bellevue, Idaho, in which any person is
engaged in any business or occupation involving self-contained prepared food
service operation. Any person conducting such a business or engaged in such an
occupation shall apply for the required business license by filling out an
application provided by the City Clerk. Mobile food vendors shall operate only
in the Business (B) Zone, unless participating in a City-approved Special Event
authorized for other locations.
Non-food mobile vending is prohibited in all zones within city limits.
3-5-2: CRITERIA:
A.   Any person who desires to engage in or conduct business at any location in
the (B) Business Zone shall make application to and receive a mobile food
vendor's license from the Administrator City Clerk or their designee prior to
engaging in or conducting business.
B.   Applicants for mobile food vendors' licenses shall file a complete
application for "mobile food vendors license" with the City not less than
thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date such person desires to engage in or
conduct business. The application shall be furnished by the City and shall
contain all information relevant and necessary to determine whether a
particular vendor's license may be issued including, but not limited to, the
following information: compliance with the criteria of approval established
herein.
      1.   Applicant name and driver's license number.
      2.   Applicant mailing address, physical address (if different) and
telephone number.
      3.   Mobile business name.
      4.   Property address where applicant proposes to engage or conduct
business. Written permission of the owner(s) of the real property reflecting
applicant's authority to engage in or conduct business at the specific location
(s) identified in the application.
      5.   Hours of operation for mobile food vendors are seven o’clock (7:00)
A.M. to nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
      6.   Mobile food vendors may operate seven (7) days a week.
      7.   Brief description of the nature, character and quality of the goods
or services to be offered for sale or delivered, and method of distributing
products.
      8.   Total number of employees.
      9.   State Identification Number.
      10.   Federal Taxpayer Identification number.
      11.   Description of motor vehicle being used for business.
      12.   Motor vehicle registration and license number.
      13.   Driver's license number.
      14.   Does the applicant hold a current approved Bellevue business
license?
      15.   A complete listing of any other licenses or permits issued to the
applicant by the City within the past five (5) years; including any revoked
permits or licenses.
      16.   A site plan including: proposed parking, loading/unloading, trash
area, traffic plan, lighting, pedestrian safety, and a sanitary wash station
shall be included in site plan.
      17.   Copy of Mobile Vendor Liability Insurance.
      18.   Minimize noise and fumes distributed by generators.
C.   A separate mobile vendor's license shall be required for each separate
mobile food vending stand, such as, but not limited to, each separate tent,
cart, or other form of stand. (Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-2021)
3-5-3: TERM OF MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LICENSE:
A.   A vendor's license is valid for the following time period:
1.   Vendor's License: A vendor's license shall be valid for a period of six
months from the date of issuance May 1 through October 1.
2.    The vendor is limited to a six-month license per location. (Ord. 2021-08,
6-14-2021)
3.   Hours of operation for mobile food vendors are eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
to ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
3-5-4: FEES:
A.   The license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid in advance
at the time of filing the application, and the fee for such license shall be
established by resolution approved by the Council.
B.   The fees established in this section shall not be prorated and are not
refundable.
C.   A separate license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), as identified in
this section, shall be required for each separate mobile vendor.
D.   All "Special Events" are exempt from this chapter. (Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-
2021)
3-5-5: SOUTH CENTRAL HEALTH DISTRICT CERTIFICATION
The application of any vendor engaged in the sale of any food or product for
human consumption shall obtain certification from the South Central Health
District prior to issuance of a mobile food vendor's license.
SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication according to law.
PASSED AND APPROVED by the CITY OF BELLEVUE, IDAHO this ___28th__ day of
___July___, 2025.      
 
                  __________________________________________
                  Christina Giordani, Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________________________
Amy Phelps, City Clerk
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-08
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BELLEVUE, IDAHO, AMENDING BELLEVUE’S CITY CODE BY
AMENDING TITLE 9, BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION, SECTION 9-2-4: CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS AND DESIGN CRITERIA TO ENABLE ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW FOR ENCROACHMENT
PERMITS, UPDATING APPLICABLE DESIGN STANDARDS AND CRITERIA; AND PROVIDING FOR
THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE UPON PASSAGE, APPROVAL AND PUBLICATION
ACCORDING TO LAW.
 
WHEREAS,  the Idaho Statute 50-313 establishes the authority of
the City of Bellevue to control the use of public rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, encroachments into public rights-of-way have impacts on public safety
and municipal operations; and
WHEREAS,  a consistent and efficient process for reviewing and approving
encroachments is necessary to ensure that such impacts are properly considered
and mitigated; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to streamline the review process for encroachments,
by allowing administrative staff to approve permits in accordance with adopted
standards and criteria; and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that delegating this authority to the
appropriate administrative official is in the best interest of the City and its
residents;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BELLEVUE, IDAHO, AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1
Title 9, Chapter 4, Section 2: Construction Standards and Criteria of the
Bellevue City Code is hereby amended as follows:
9-2-4: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND DESIGN CRITERIA:
A.    Minimum Standards: The design criteria, standards, specifications and
standard drawings set forth in this section are hereby adopted as the minimum
standards for permit application approval and construction and other work
undertaken pursuant to this chapter within the City. Said criteria, standards,
specifications and standard drawings apply to all construction, repair,
improvement, and other activities for which a permit is required under
subsection 9-2-2B of this chapter.
1.    Street Construction Permit Standards: The design criteria, standard
specifications, standard drawings, and additional requirements for the
construction, reconstruction, repair, replacement and improvement of all
streets and roadways, public or private, or any portion thereof, are set forth
in appendix A entitled City of Bellevue, Idaho Street Construction Standards,
which is on file with the City, and subsequent amendments thereto.
2.    Public Pathway Construction Permit Standards: The design criteria,
standard specifications, standard drawings and additional requirements for
bicycle paths, equestrian paths and other public pathways are set forth in the
Blaine County Bike path and Public Pathway Construction Standards, and
subsequent amendments thereto, hereby adopted by reference.
3.    Street Excavation Permit Standards: The design criteria, standard
specifications, standard drawings and additional requirements for any digging
in, excavation, trenching or other disturbance to the surface or subsurface of
any street, public or private, or public right-of-way, or any portion thereof,
are set forth in appendix A, incorporated herein by reference and which is on
file with the City, and subsequent amendments thereto.
4.    Encroachment Permit Applications and Standards:
a.    All encroachment permit applications, except for approaches for private
streets and driveways, shall be submitted to the City Engineer or designee for
review and final decision to approve, approve with conditions or deny same. The
Common Council City Engineer or designee may require such information, plans,
engineering reports, and studies as it reasonably deems appropriate to properly
consider such application. Approval or denial of an encroachment permit
application shall be in the sound discretion of the City Engineer or designee.
City Engineer or designee shall consider and review each application upon the
following standards, criteria and factors:
(1)    Whether or not the proposed improvement will benefit the City and
inhabitants thereof;
(2)    The need for said improvement and any services provided thereby to the
City and inhabitants thereof;
(3)    That there will be no detrimental effects from such improvement upon the
public health, safety and/or welfare of the City and/or inhabitants;
(4)    That there are no alternative locations, routes and methods of
construction for the proposed improvements that will eliminate potential
adverse effect(s) therefrom or conflict(s) with future infrastructure
improvements by the City; and
(5)    Such other factors as the Common Council City Engineer or designee may
deem appropriate based upon the particular circumstances of each encroachment
application to ensure that the requested encroachment and the permit, if any,
issued therefor promotes and is not detrimental to the health, safety and/or
welfare of the City or inhabitants thereof.
b.   Encroachment permit applications for approaches for private streets and
driveways shall be reviewed and approved, approved with conditions, or denied
by the City Engineer or the Engineer’s designee. Applications shall be reviewed
for conformance with the following standards:
(1)    The approach is to be constructed to adopted City Standards and
applicable City Code requirements.
(2)    The approach will not create unreasonable hazards for pedestrians,
cyclists, or motorists.
(3)    The approach will not disrupt or unreasonably impact the flow of
stormwater.
(4)    Other factors as deemed necessary by the City Engineer.
The decision of the Engineer is subject to appeal pursuant to Section 9-2-15.
bc.   The Common Council City Engineer or designee may attach reasonable
conditions upon the issuance of an encroachment permit to protect the health,
safety and/or welfare of the City or inhabitants thereof.
5.    Special Conditions: Other reasonable criteria, specifications and
drawings may be required for special situations or improvements as determined
by the City Engineer, and all such special criteria, standard specifications
and drawings shall be approved by the City Engineer.
6.    Other Improvement Standards: If an improvement is proposed for which no
standards are set forth herein, the standards of the Idaho Department of
Transportation, Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction, or other State
agency having standards therefor, including subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein by reference. Standards for
construction of sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be pursuant to a specific
plan approved by the City Engineer consistent with the existing Main Street
improvements existing improvements to adjacent property.
B.    Amendments To Standards: Amendments and additions to each of the
appendices on file with the City may be adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
SECTION 2:   EFFECTIVE DATE: 
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication as required by law.
 
PASSED AND APPROVED by the CITY OF BELLEVUE, IDAHO this 28th day of July, 2025.
         
                  
                  __________________________________________
            Christina Giordani, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
________________________________
Amy Phelps, City Clerk
 
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BELLEVUE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official City Code of Bellevue. This Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the BELLEVUE CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2018 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2018 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2018 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said Code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to the Office of the
City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City Council. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances.
   B.   Appropriation ordinances.
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
   F.   Salary ordinances.
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
   H.   Improvement ordinances.
   I.   Bond ordinances.
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections.
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the City.
   L.   All special ordinances. (2018 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2018 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The City Council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and City Council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   Unlawful Acts Or Omissions: Wherever in this Code any act or omission
is made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding,
abetting, suffering, or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the City of Bellevue".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1983 Code ch.
2.20; amd. 2018 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho, or the area within the territorial limits of
the City of Bellevue, Idaho, as well as such territory outside the City over
which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or
statutory authority.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Bellevue.
COUNCIL: The Common Council of the City of Bellevue.
COUNTY: The County of Blaine, State of Idaho.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed.
LAW: Denotes any applicable Federal or State law, the Constitutions of the
United States and the State of Idaho, the Charter of the City of Bellevue, the
ordinances of the City of Bellevue, and, when appropriate, all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated pursuant to any ordinance of the City of
Bellevue for provision of this Code.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, a joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, corporation, business, trust, organization,
charitable organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of them.
PLATTED AREA: The original townsite of the City of Bellevue, Idaho, as recorded
in the Office of the County Recorder of Alturas County, Idaho, on August 5,
1882.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
UNPLATTED AREA: See the City subdivision ordinance, title 11 of this Code.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1983 Code ch. 2.10; amd. 2018 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2018
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-4: Procedures Governing The Imposition Of Civil Fines
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by City ordinance, every offense declared to be a misdemeanor is
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in the County Jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both,
together with such costs as may be required by law. These punishments shall
comply with Idaho Code section 18-113, as amended. If a penalty is limited by
State law, such violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum
permitted by State law.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) exclusive of court costs
and no incarceration may be imposed.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When the City is participating in a
Federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the City may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses.
   D.    Civil Fine; The city may enforce the requirements of this Code through
the imposition of civil monetary penalties to be imposed in accordance with the
procedures outlined in Section
1-4-4 and the City Fee and Fine Schedule as established by resolution of the
Bellevue City Council which may be updated from time to time. (2018 Code; amd.
Ord. 2023-03, 5-8-2023)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2018 Code)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2018
Code)
1-4-4: PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE IMPOSITION OF CIVIL FINES:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this Section:
 
                               A city officer or employee with authority to
CHARGING OFFICIAL:             enforce the ordinance for which citations may be
                               issued or a person designated by the charging
                               official to act on his or her behalf.
                               An administrative citation issued pursuant to
                               this Section stating that the charging official
CITATION:                      has determined that there has been a violation
                               of one or more provisions of a City ordinance,
                               which ordinance incorporates this Section in
                               whole or in part.
                               The dollar amount of an administrative or civil
FINE and/or PENALTY:           fine that the person cited is required to pay
                               for violation of an ordinance as set forth by
                               the charging official in the citation.
                               A natural person, firm, association,
                               organization, partnership, business trust,
PERSON:                        company, corporation, limited liability company,
                               joint venture, or club, or its manager, lessee,
                               agent, servant, officer or employee.
                               Under the preponderance standard, the burden of
                               proof is met when the party with the burden
PREPONDERANCE OF THE EVIDENCE: convinces the hearing officer(s) that there is a
                               greater than fifty percent (50%) chance that the
                               claim is true.
                               Either personal delivery or deposit in the
                               United States Mail, first class, in a sealed
                               envelope postage prepaid. Service shall include
                               a declaration under penalty of perjury setting
SERVE or SERVICE:              forth the date of personal delivery or, for
                               service by mail, the date of deposit in the
                               mail. Service by personal delivery shall be
                               deemed complete on the date of the delivery.
                               Service by mail shall be deemed complete on the
                               date of deposit in the mail.
                               A violation of an ordinance for which the
VIOLATION:                     charging official has authority to issue a
                               citation.
 
   B.   Issuance and Service of Citations.
      1.   When a charging official determines that a violation of an ordinance
has occurred, the charging official may issue and serve a citation on any
person responsible for the violation. The citation shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The name of the person to whom the citation is issued;
         b.   Identification of the provision or provisions of the ordinance
violated;
         c.   A description of the condition or circumstances constituting the
violation(s), including the address or location and date of the violation;
         d.   The amount of the fine imposed for each violation;
         e.   The date by which the fine must be paid, the procedure for making
payment (including to whom payment must be made and acceptable forms of
payment), and the consequences of the failure to pay;
         f.   The date the citation is issued and the name and signature of the
charging official.
   C.   Determination of the Amount of the Administrative Fine when the
Citation is Issued. The amount of any fine for a violation under the Bellevue
City Code, the following fines may be assessed:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation of the ordinance
(and each additional day that is part of the same incident);
      2.   Two hundreds dollars ($200.00) for a second violation of the same
ordinance within one year of the date of the first violation; and
      3.   Three hundreds ($300.00) for each additional violation of the same
ordinance within one year of the date of a second or subsequent violation.
   D.   When Fines Due; Payment of Fine; Late Payment Fee:
      1.   The citation shall set forth the date by which the fine is required
to be paid, provided however, any person cited, shall have thirty (30) days
from the date of the citation to pay the fine unless the person cited has filed
a timely appeal in compliance with this Section.
      2.   Fines which remain unpaid fifteen (15) days after the due date shall
be subject to a late payment penalty of ten percent (10%) plus interest at the
rate of one percent (1%) per month on the outstanding balance, which shall be
added to the fine or penalty amount from the date that payment is due.
      3.   All fines and late payment fees shall be payable to the City and
deposited in the City's general fund, unless the payment is made pursuant to an
ordinance that provides otherwise.
   E.   Remedies Available to City for Non-Payment of Fines; Criminal Sanctions
for Multiple Offenses:
      1.   The amount of any fine not paid within the time required under this
Section, including the amount of any applicable late payment charges,
constitutes a debt to the city. The City may file a civil action or pursue any
other legal remedy to collect such money. In any civil action to obtain payment
of the fine, and any late payment penalties, the city shall be entitled to
obtain a judgment for the amount of the unpaid fines and penalty payments and,
in addition, for the costs and attorneys' fees incurred by the city in bringing
any civil action to enforce the provisions of this Section. Nothing hereunder
shall preclude the city from levying against real property in order to satisfy
a judgment for such fines and costs.
      2.   If the fine is unpaid at the time a person cited for a violation
applies for a license or permit, or any other registration issued by the City,
the City may deny the approval of such license, permit, or registration until
the fine is paid in full, unless State law provides otherwise.
      3.   In the event that a Person is cited three (3) or more times in any
five-year period with a civil fine for the violation of the same or a
substantially similar violation of this Code, the third and all subsequent
offenses may be treated as misdemeanors.
   F.   Right to Appeal:
      1.   Any person who has been served with a citation may seek
administrative review of the citation by filing an appeal with the City Clerk
as provided herein. The grounds for any such appeal shall be that there was no
violation of the ordinance for which the citation was issued or that the person
cited did not commit the violation.
      2.   The City Clerk shall make available an appeal form for use by
violators who wish to appeal their citation. The form shall include a
description of the procedure for seeking administrative review of the citation,
including the deadline for filing the appeal or reference this Section of the
Bellevue City Code. The appeal form shall require the appellant to provide a
mailing address, a street address, a telephone number, and any other contact
information that the Clerk determines appropriate.
      3.   In order to file an appeal, the appellant must pay a deposit in an
amount equal to the cited fine. The deposit will be refunded in whole if the
hearing officer issues a determination vacating the citation and in part if the
hearing officer determines that the citation should be thus modified. No
interest or late fees shall accrue during the appeal period.
   G.   Appeal Procedure; Appointment of Hearing Officer.
      1.   Any person who seeks the administrative review of a citation may
file an appeal no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the day of service
of citation or the time given to pay the citation. An appeal shall be deemed
filed on the day that the City Clerk received the appeal along with the
required deposit.
      2.   The City Clerk shall take the following actions within fourteen (14)
days of receiving a properly filed appeal:
         a.   Appoint a hearing officer or a panel of officers;
         b.   Set a date for the hearing, which date shall be no less than ten
(10) and no more than sixty (60) days from the date that the appeal was filed;
and
         c.   Send written notice of the hearing date to the appellant and the
charging official.
      3.   The provisions of this Subsection requiring the City Clerk or
Charging Official to act by a specific date are directory. The failure of the
City Clerk or Charging Official to take action within the time specified shall
not deprive that person of jurisdiction over the matter or of the right to take
action at a later time, unless to do so would unreasonably prejudice persons
issued citations.
   H.   Qualification of Hearing Officers.
      1.   The officer(s) selected to hear appeals shall be impartial.
      2.   Disqualification of Appeals Hearing Officer. Any person designated
to serve as an Appeals Hearing Officer is subject to disqualification for bias,
prejudice, interest, or for any other reason for which a judge may be
disqualified in a court of law. The City Clerk shall determine in writing
whether to grant the petition for disqualification and their reason, therefore.
If a substitute is required for a hearing officer due to disqualification or
unavailability, a substitute shall be appointed by the City Clerk in accordance
with these rules and regulations.
   I.   Hearing Procedures.
      1.   The hearing officer(s) shall conduct all appeal hearings under this
subsection and shall be responsible for deciding all matters relating to the
hearing procedures not otherwise specified in this Subsection or in regulations
adopted by the City Council. The charging official shall have the burden of
proof by a preponderance of the evidence at the hearing. The hearing officer(s)
may continue the hearing at his, her, or their own initiative or at the request
of either party. The hearing officer(s) may request additional information from
the charging official or the person cited.
      2.   The hearing need not be conducted according to technical rules of
evidence and witnesses. Any relevant evidence is admissible if it is the sort
of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct
of serious affairs.
      3.   The following provisions shall also apply to the appeal procedure:
         a.   A citation that complies with the requirements of this Subsection
and any additional evidence submitted by the charging official shall be prima
facie evidence of the facts contained therein;
         b.   The appellant shall be given the opportunity to present evidence
concerning the citation; and
         c.   The hearing officer(s) may accept testimony by declaration under
penalty of perjury relating to the citation from any party if he or she
determines it appropriate to do so under the circumstances of the case.
   J.   Requirement to Exhaust Administrative Remedies. The failure of the
person cited to file a timely appeal shall constitute a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies and shall preclude the person cited from obtaining
judicial review of the validity of the citation.
   K.   Determination of the Hearing Officer.
      1.   After considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted by the
parties, the hearing officer(s) shall issue a written decision upholding,
modifying or vacating the citation and shall set forth the reasons for the
determination. The determination of the hearing officer(s) shall be a final
administrative determination.
      2.   The hearing officer(s) shall serve the appellant and the charging
official with a copy of the determination within thirty (30) days of the appeal
hearing.
      3.   If the hearing officer(s) determines that the citation is vacated or
modified the City shall issue a full or partial refund of the deposit to the
appellant along with a copy of the determination.
      4.   If a charging official issues a single citation for multiple
violations of an ordinance or for violation of multiple provisions of an
ordinance, the hearing officer(s) shall hear all appeals of a citation at the
same time, unless good cause is shown that they should be heard separately.
      5.   If two (2) hearing officers are appointed they must act together to
uphold a citation either in full or in part; if more than two (2) hearing
officers are appointed a simple majority of them must act to uphold a citation
either in full or in Part. (Ord. 2023-03, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Newspaper
1-5-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Idaho Mountain Express", as a newspaper which meets the requirements of
Idaho Code section 60-106, et seq., shall be and the same is hereby designated
as the official newspaper for the City. (Ord. 2004-07, 6-10-2004)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND COMMON COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Compensation
1-6-2: Regular Meetings
1-6-1: COMPENSATION:
Commencing January 1, 2024, the salaries of the Mayor and Common Council shall
be as follows:
   A.   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of twelve thousand
dollars ($12,000.00).
   B.   Each member of the Common Council shall receive an annual salary in the
sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00)..
   C.   Each of the above salaries shall be paid in twelve (12) equal
installments. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-26-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-06, 8-14-2023)
1-6-2: REGULAR MEETINGS:
   A.   Purpose: This section is adopted to establish a time, date and location
of the meetings of the Bellevue Common Council, as required by and in
accordance with Idaho Code section 50-705 and other applicable law. (Ord. 2013-
03, 4-15-2013)
   B.   Day, Time And Location: The regularly scheduled meetings of the
Bellevue Common Council shall be on the second and fourth Mondays of each month
at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. at the Bellevue City Hall Council Chamber located at
115 East Pine Street, Bellevue, Idaho. (Ord. 2013-03, 4-15-2013; amd. 2018
Code)
CHAPTER 7
NONDISCRIMINATION REGARDING SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER EXPRESSION/IDENTITY
SECTION:
1-7-1: Purpose And Intent
1-7-2: Definitions
1-7-3: Prohibited Discriminatory Acts
1-7-4: Exemptions From Provisions
1-7-5: Unlawful Intimidation, Retaliation And Interference
1-7-6: No Private Right Of Action Or Money Damages
1-7-7: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
1-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   In order to ensure that all persons, regardless of sexual orientation
and/or gender identity/expression enjoy the full benefits of citizenship and
are afforded equal opportunities for employment, housing, commercial property
and use of public accommodations, the City has determined that discrimination
on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity/expression must be
addressed and appropriate legislation be enacted.
   B.   It is hereby declared that every individual in the City has the right
to work and earn wages through gainful employment, has the right to seek
housing and has the right to enjoy public accommodation and hospitality.
   C.   It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the City to foster the
employment of all individuals in accordance with their abilities. Every
individual has the right to work and earn wages through gainful employment.
Discriminatory employment practices are detrimental because they impede the
social and economic progress of the City by preventing all of the City's
citizens from contributing to the cultural, spiritual, social and commercial
life of the community. The contributions of all the citizens of the City are
essential to the City's growth, vitality and prosperity.
   D.   It is the intent of this chapter that all persons be treated fairly and
equally, and it is the express intent of this chapter to guarantee fair and
equal treatment under the law to all people in the City. The denial of fair and
equal treatment under the law due to sexual orientation or gender identity/
expression is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the City's
citizens, and damages the City's economic well-being.
   E.   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the
City for the protection of the public welfare, prosperity, health and peace of
the City, its residents and the community.
   F.   The prohibitions against discriminatory acts as provided in this
chapter are intended to supplement State and Federal civil rights laws
prohibiting discrimination in the areas of employment, public accommodations
and housing. Therefore, this chapter shall not apply to complaints alleging
discrimination on a basis proscribed under State or Federal law (e.g., race,
color, religion, creed, ancestry, age, sex, national origin, familial status,
veteran status and/or disability).
   G.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to alter or abridge other rights,
protections or privileges secured under State and/or Federal law. This chapter
shall not create a private cause of action, nor shall it create any right or
remedy that is the same or substantially equivalent to a remedy under Federal
or State law.
   H.   This chapter shall not create any special rights or privileges that
would not be available to all of Bellevue citizens because every person has a
sexual orientation and a gender identity.
   I.   This chapter shall be construed and applied in a manner consistent with
constitutional right of freedom of speech and exercise of religion. (Ord. 2015-
04, 6-15-2015)
1-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used to define words and phrases within this
chapter:
DENY: Any act which, directly or indirectly, by any person or his agent or
employee, results or is intended or calculated to result in whole or in part in
any discrimination, distinction, restriction, or unequal treatment or
representation. The term also includes, but is not limited to, the requiring of
a person to pay a larger sum than the uniform rates charged other persons, or
the refusing or withholding from persons the admission, patronage, custom,
presence, frequenting, dwelling, staying, or lodging in any place of public
resort, accommodation, assemblage, or amusement except for conditions and
limitations established by law and applicable alike to all persons, regardless
of sexual orientation and/or gender identity/expression.
DISCRIMINATE: Any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction, segregation,
limitation, refusal, denial or other differentiation in the treatment of a
person because of a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender
identity/expression or because of a person's association with any such person.
Discrimination shall not be interpreted to require or to grant or accord any
preferential treatment to any person because of that person's sexual
orientation or gender identity/expression.
FULL ENJOYMENT: Shall mean, but is not limited to, the right to use, rent or
purchase real property, any service, commodity or article of personal property
offered or sold by any person or establishment to the public, and the admission
of any person to accommodations, advantages, facilities or privileges of any
place of public resort, accommodation, assemblage or amusement, without acts
directly or indirectly causing persons of any particular sexual orientation
and/or gender identity/expression to be treated as not welcome, accepted,
desired or solicited.
GENDER IDENTITY/EXPRESSION: A gender related identity, appearance, expression
or behavior of an individual regardless of a person's assigned sex at birth.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: A building or portion of a building, whether constructed
or to be constructed, that is or will be used as the home, domicile, residence
or sleeping quarters of its occupants.
OTHERWISE QUALIFIED: A person who possesses the following bona fide job related
qualifications required by an employer for any particular job, job
classification, or position: education, training, ability, character,
integrity, disposition to work, adherence to reasonable rules and regulations
and other bona fide job related qualifications required by an employer.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, corporation, partnership or other
organization, association or group of persons however arranged.
PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT, ACCOMMODATION, ASSEMBLAGE OR AMUSEMENT: Shall mean, but
is not limited to, any public place, licensed or unlicensed, kept for gain,
hire or reward, or where charges are made for admission, service, occupancy or
use of any property or facilities, whether conducted for the entertainment,
housing or lodging of transient guests, or for the benefit, use or
accommodation of those seeking health, recreation or rest, or for the sale of
goods and merchandise, or for the rendering of personal services, or for public
conveyance or transportation on land, water or in the air, including the
stations and terminals thereof and the garaging of vehicles, or where food or
beverages of any kind are sold for consumption on the premises, or where public
amusement, entertainment, sports or recreation of any kind is offered with or
without charge, or where medical service or care is made available, or where
the public gathers, congregates, or assembles for amusement, recreation or
public purposes, or public halls, public elevators and public washrooms of
buildings and structures occupied by two (2) or more tenants, or by the owner
and one or more tenants, or any public library or any educational institution
wholly or partially supported by public funds, or schools of special
instruction, or nursery schools, or daycare centers or children's camps.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to include, or apply to, any
institute, bona fide club, or place of accommodation, which is, by its nature,
distinctly private; provided, that where public use is permitted, that use
shall be covered by this definition; nor shall anything herein contained apply
to any educational facility operated or maintained by a bona fide religious or
sectarian institution.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: Actual or perceived homosexuality, heterosexuality and/or
bisexuality. (Ord. 2015-04, 6-15-2015)
1-7-3: PROHIBITED DISCRIMINATORY ACTS:
The following acts are prohibited and shall constitute a misdemeanor:
   A.   To deny to any other person otherwise qualified because of sexual
orientation and/or gender identity/expression the right to work: 1) by failing
or refusing to hire; 2) by discharging; 3) by barring from employment; 4) by
discriminating against such person in compensation or in other terms or
conditions of employment; or 5) otherwise discriminating against an individual
with respect to employment.
   B.   To deny to or to discriminate against any person because of sexual
orientation and/or gender identity/expression the full enjoyment of any of the
accommodations, advantages, facilities or privileges of any place of public
resort, accommodation, assemblage, or amusement.
   C.   To deny to or discriminate against any other person because of sexual
orientation and/or gender identity/expression in the sale, purchase, lease or
rental of any housing accommodation, or to otherwise discriminate in the terms
and conditions, maintenance, improvement or repair of any housing
accommodation. (Ord. 2015-04, 6-15-2015)
1-7-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, nothing in this chapter is
intended to alter or abridge other rights, protections, or privileges secured
under State and/or Federal law. This chapter shall be construed and applied in
a manner consistent with First Amendment jurisprudence regarding the freedom of
speech and exercise of religion.
   B.   This chapter does not apply to:
      1.   The religious activities of any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or
other house of worship or other place used primarily for religious activities
and ordained priests or ministers of any denomination engaged in such
activities;
      2.   An expressive association whose employment of a person protected by
this chapter would significantly burden the association's rights of expressive
association under Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, 530 U.S. 640 (2000);
      3.   The United States government, any of its departments or agencies, or
any corporation wholly owned thereby; or the State of Idaho or any of its
departments, agencies, or political subdivisions, except the City of Bellevue;
      4.   The rental of a residential dwelling unit within a two-family
dwelling where the owner or a relative of the owner resides within one of the
dwelling unit(s); or
      5.   The rental of a room or rooms in a single-family residential
dwelling unit by an individual if the individual or a member of the
individual's family resides therein. (Ord. 2015-04, 6-15-2015)
1-7-5: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION, RETALIATION AND INTERFERENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discriminate against, harass, threaten,
harm, damage, or otherwise penalize another person for opposing an unlawful
practice, for filing a complaint, for assisting, or participating in any manner
in the investigation or in mediation concerning this chapter. (Ord. 2015-04, 6-
15-2015)
1-7-6: NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION OR MONEY DAMAGES:
There is no private right of action that is created by this chapter or money
damages available to any person based on this chapter. (Ord. 2015-04, 6-15-
2015)
1-7-7: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 2015-04, 6-15-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created; Composition; Appointment And Terms; Residency; Vacancies
And Removals
2-1-2: Organization
2-1-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-1-4: Library Personnel
2-1-5: Annual Appropriations And Control Of Expenditures
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS; RESIDENCY; VACANCIES
AND REMOVALS:
There is hereby created the Bellevue Library Board of Trustees ("Library
Board"). The board shall consist of five (5) voting members, each appointed by
the Mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the Common Council ("Council") of
the City of Bellevue ("Bellevue"). The initial appointment term shall be one
year for one member, two (2) years for one member, three (3) years for one
member, four (4) years for one member and five (5) years for one member.
Thereafter, appointments shall be for a term of five (5) years or until a
successor is appointed. Whenever a seat on the board shall become vacant for
whatever reason, the board shall report same to the Council within five (5)
working days, and that vacancy shall be filled as set forth herein by the Mayor
and Council for the remainder of the vacated term. The Council shall select the
members to represent the broad interests of the people of Bellevue without
regard to sex, age, race, nationality, religion, disability or political
affiliation. Each member shall be a resident of Bellevue at the time of their
appointment to the board and shall remain a resident of Bellevue to retain
membership on the board. A member, upon not being a resident of Bellevue,
automatically loses membership on the board. The Council, by unanimous vote,
may remove a Library Board member for any reason deemed appropriate by the
Council. Each year the Council shall appoint one of its members to be a liaison
to the board without voting rights. (Ord. 2006-10, 6-22-2006; amd. 2018 Code)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION:
The Library Board shall be organized in accordance with this section and the
relevant provisions of Idaho Code.
   A.   Bylaws: The board shall adopt bylaws for the conduct of its governance,
meetings and affairs.
   B.   Officers: The board shall elect a Chair, Vice Chair, and Secretary.
   C.   Committees: The board may establish subcommittees and advisory
committees to advise the board in carrying out its duties and responsibilities
under this chapter and/or assist in library operations, fundraising and other
related endeavors.
   D.   Voting: All five (5) members shall have voting rights. A majority of
the members of the board shall constitute a quorum, and a majority of a quorum
may decide issues before the board.
   E.   Records And Recommendations: The board shall make such reports and
recommendations to the Council as the board deems appropriate on matters
relating to the library, including, without limitation, library policies,
procedures, operations, budgeting requests, improvements, and expansions.
   F.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: At least one regular meeting shall be held each
quarter of the year on such regular dates as the board may determine. The board
shall hold its first regular meeting in January of each year, which meeting
shall be designated as the annual meeting for the purpose of electing officers,
establishing regular meeting dates, and reviewing, amending, repealing or
adopting bylaws, policies, and procedures, and to consider such other matters
as lawfully on the agenda.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be scheduled as necessary as
provided by law.
      3.   Open To The Public: All board meetings and records shall be open to
the public and shall comply with the Open Meetings Law 1
.
      4.   Executive Sessions: The Mayor and Council members shall have the
right to attend any executive session of the board.
      5.   Recordkeeping: A record of meetings, motions, studies, findings, and
actions taken shall be maintained as required by law.
   G.   Compensation: Members shall serve without salary, but may receive their
actual and necessary expenses while engaged in authorized business of the
library as budgeted and approved by the Council. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-10-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 67-2340 - 67-2344.
2-1-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Library Board's duties and responsibilities include the following:
   A.   Establish bylaws for its governance and maintain legal records of all
board meetings and actions;
   B.   Establish policies and rules of use and governance of the library and
to exclude from use of the library any and all persons who violate such rules;
   C.   Establish, locate, maintain and have custody of the library or
libraries to serve Bellevue, and to provide suitable rooms, structures,
facilities, books and other materials, furniture, equipment, supplies,
apparatus and appliances necessary for library service;
   D.   Make recommendations to the Council with regard to the hiring,
promotion, discipline, termination, wages and other matters with regard to a
Library Director and other library employees;
   E.   With the prior approval of the Council:
      1.   Acquire real property by purchase, gift, devise, lease or otherwise;
      2.   Own and hold real and personal property and construct buildings for
the use and purposes of the library;
      3.   Sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of real or personal property
when no longer required by the library;
      4.   Insure the real and personal property of the library;
      5.   Prepare and adopt a budget for review and approval by the Council;
      6.   Control the expenditures of money budgeted for the library;
      7.   Accept or decline gifts of money or personal property in accordance
with library policies and under such terms as may be a condition of the gift;
      8.   Supervise and evaluate the Library Director;
      9.   Establish policies for the purchase and distribution of library
materials; and
      10.   Exercise such other powers, not inconsistent with law, necessary
for the orderly and efficient management of the library. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-10-
2001)
      11.   Attend all meetings of the Library Board.
      12.   Maintain legal records of all board business. (2018 Code)
   F.   Report to the Council on any library matters upon request of the Mayor
or Council. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-10-2002)
2-1-4: LIBRARY PERSONNEL:
   A.   Library Director: The board shall make recommendations to the Council
regarding appointment of the Library Director, who shall serve at the pleasure
of the board. The Library Director shall advise the board, implement policies
set by the board, supervise all library employees, staff and volunteers and
acquire library materials, equipment and supplies. The Library Director shall
attend all meetings of the board but shall not vote.
   B.   Employees: With the recommendation of the Library Director, the board
shall hire other employees as may be necessary for the operation of the library
in accordance with City policies and procedures. These employees shall be
employees of the City and subject to the City's personnel policies and
classifications, unless otherwise provided by City ordinance. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-
10-2002; amd. 2018 Code)
2-1-5: ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS AND CONTROL OF EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The board shall prepare and adopt an annual budget, stating anticipated
revenues and expenditures and indicating what support and maintenance of the
library will be required for the upcoming fiscal year. The board shall submit a
proposed annual library budget for review and final approval, including
amendments, by the Council for the ensuing year. The board shall submit its
proposed library budget to the Council by July 15 of each year in order for the
Council to consider it as part of the City budgeting process, and if the board
fails to do so, the Council may adopt such library budget as it deems
advisable.
   B.   All funds for the library shall be in the custody of the City Treasurer
and shall be used only for library purposes. The board shall have control of
library expenditures. Money shall be paid for library purposes only upon
properly authenticated vouchers of the board. The board shall not make
expenditures or incur indebtedness in any year in excess of the amount of money
appropriated for library purposes by the Council. The board may hold a separate
checking account, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), to be used to
pay "petty expenses" (defined as expenses not to exceed $50.00) of the library,
and this amount shall be audited annually along with all other library funds.
Checks drawn on this account shall be signed by two (2) board members.
   C.   All property, real and personal, acquired by the board shall be held in
the name of Bellevue. All donations or gifts for the benefit of the library
shall be budgeted along with other library accounts, and such donations and
gifts to the library shall be used only for library purposes. Money or other
funds which are donated or given to the library may be expended by the board
only in accordance with the City budget process.
(Ord. 2002-01, 1-10-2002)
CHAPTER 2
COMMUNITY EVENTS COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment Of The Community Events Committee
2-2-2: Membership
2-2-3: Duties And Responsibilities
2-2-4: Meetings
2-2-5: Staff Support
2-2-6: Reporting
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMUNITY EVENTS COMMITTEE:
   A Community Events Committee (hereafter referred to as "the Committee") is
hereby established for the City of Bellevue. The purpose of the Committee is to
plan, facilitate and organize City organized events on City property. For the
purposes of this Chapter, "City organized events" shall be limited to the
Bellevue Labor Day Celebration, the Bellevue Trunk or Treat, and the Bellevue
Tree Lighting Ceremony. Other events may be added by resolution of the Common
Council.
(Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The Committee shall consist of five (5) members, appointed
by the Mayor with the approval of the Common Council.
   B.   Eligibility: Members must be residents of the City of Bellevue.
   C.   Term: Each member shall serve a term of two (2) years, with no member
serving more than three (3) consecutive terms. For the initiation of the
committee, two (2) members will serve a one-year term, and three (3) members
will serve a two-year term. Terms shall be staggered to ensure continuity of
the Committee's work.
   D.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring for any reason shall be filled by
appointment for the remainder of the term by the Mayor, with the approval of
the Common Council.
   E.   Officers: The Committee shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson from among its members. The Chairperson shall preside over all
meetings, and the Vice-Chairperson shall act in the absence of the Chairperson.
(Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
2-2-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   The duties and responsibilities of the Community Events Committee shall
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Event Planning: Organizing and planning community events, including but
not limited to festivals, parades, concerts, charity events, and other
activities that serve to engage the public and foster community spirit.
   B.   Budget Recommendations: Developing and presenting a budget for each
event to the Common Council for approval, including funding sources and
estimated costs.
   C.   Volunteer Coordination: Recruiting and coordinating volunteers to
assist in the execution of events.
   D.   Collaboration: Working with local organizations, businesses, and other
stakeholders to promote and enhance community events.
   E.   Community Engagement: Ensuring that events are consistent with the
population's need and demographics.
   F.   Event Evaluation: Providing recommendations for future events based on
the success of past activities, including feedback from the community.
   G.   Promotion: Developing strategies for promoting community events through
social media, local media, and other communication channels.
(Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
2-2-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Frequency: The Committee shall meet at quarterly or as needed to
accomplish its duties.
   B.   Quorum: A quorum is required for the Committee to take any official
action.
   C.   Open Meeting Laws: The Committee shall comply with the applicable
provisions of Idaho's Open Meeting Laws contained in Title 74 Chapter 2 of the
Idaho Code.
(Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
2-2-5: STAFF SUPPORT:
   The City shall provide appropriate administrative and clerical support, as
well as additional funding through donations, to the Committee, including
assistance with meeting coordination, event planning, and record-keeping.
(Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
2-2-6: REPORTING:
   The Committee shall report to the Common Council on a quarterly basis
regarding the status of planned events and any other matters of significance,
as necessary.
(Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Applications For Licenses And Permits
3-1-3: Payment Of Fees; Proration
3-1-4: Investigation Of Applicants
3-1-5: Forms And Signatures
3-1-6: Change Of Location
3-1-7: Business License Requirements
3-1-7-1: License Required
3-1-7-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-7-3: License Fees
3-1-7-4: Standards For Issuance Of License
3-1-7-5: Right Of Appeal
3-1-7-6: Term Of License
3-1-8: Enforcement And Penalties
3-1-9: Exemptions From License Requirements
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
A TEMPORARY - SEASONAL USE: Includes uses that support community events and
celebrations and shall not exceed twenty (20) days per calendar year. Events
shall not exceed three (3) consecutive days. All temporary uses shall specify
beginning and ending dates. Fireworks stands and Christmas tree stands shall be
exempt from the consecutive day status. Extensions for additional days per
calendar year shall be approved by the Bellevue Common Council.
BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION: Any commercial activity, trade, or pursuit conducted or
engaged in for profit, including, without limitation, wholesale, retail or
personal service business professions, and home occupations located or
conducted from any premises within the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
LIMITED TEMPORARY USE: Includes uses of a limited duration that are permitted
in the applicable zoning district. A temporary use of a limited duration shall
not exceed twenty (20) days per calendar year. All temporary uses shall specify
a beginning and ending dates. Extensions for additional days per calendar year
shall be approved by the Bellevue Common Council.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: A self-contained food service operation, located in a
readily moveable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle, used to store, prepare,
display or serve food intended for individual portion service.
PREMISES: Includes all real property and structures thereon in or upon which
any business or occupation is conducted. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-
2008; amd. Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-2021)
3-1-2: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk in the absence of provisions to the contrary. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid, and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the City officials in the issuance of the
permit or license for which applied. (1983 Code § 6.101)
3-1-3: PAYMENT OF FEES; PRORATION:
In the absence of provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor is made to
the City Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business until after
the expiration of part of the current license year, the license fee shall be
prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business has been or will be conducted. Except as otherwise
provided, all license and permit fees shall become part of the City General
Fund. (1983 Code § 6.106)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where ordinances of
the City necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the City Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours from the
time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. (1983 Code § 6.105)
3-1-5: FORMS AND SIGNATURES:
   A.   Forms: Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor,
shall be prepared and kept on file by the City Clerk. (1983 Code § 6.103)
   B.   Signatures: Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of
the Mayor and the City Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(1983 Code § 6.104)
3-1-6: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act,
may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the City
Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided, that there
shall be compliance with the building and zoning requirements of the City.
(1983 Code § 6.108)
3-1-7: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
3-1-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
A business license shall be required for each premises located within the City
of Bellevue, Idaho in which any person is engaged in any business or
occupation. Any person conducting such a business or engaged in such an
occupation shall apply for the required business license by filling out an
application provided by the City Clerk. A license shall be required for each
branch establishment and/or separate location of business. No person shall
engage in any such business or occupation within the boundaries of the City of
Bellevue without first having obtained a business license as required by this
section. No licensee shall change the location of a licensed business without
having applied for and received a new business license pursuant to the terms of
this chapter. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-2008)
3-1-7-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement when, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the City. (1983 Code § 6.102)
3-1-7-3: LICENSE FEES:
A business license fee for the administrative costs of processing applications
and issuing licenses shall be set forth herein by resolution of the Bellevue
City Council. Fees for new business applications received after January 1, of
the applicable calendar year shall be prorated for the remaining number of days
left in the calendar year. A late fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be
charged for any annual license renewal application received after the
expiration of the license in question to help defray the additional costs
incurred by the City with regard thereto. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-
2008; amd. 2018 Code)
3-1-7-4: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
A license shall be issued only to applicants who meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Businesses relocating in new structures or remodeled structures and all
new businesses opening for the first time after the effective date hereof shall
present with the required application a certificate of occupancy furnished by
the City building inspector.
   B.   The business and premises for which the application is made are not in
violation of any zoning regulations. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-2008)
   C.   Issuance of a business license shall not be deemed to constitute
compliance of any business, premises or property with any law, ordinance, rule
or regulation of the State of Idaho or City of Bellevue, Idaho.
   D.   The issuance of a business license shall require compliance with all
current City and State codes including, but not limited to, this Code, the
Bellevue Building and Zoning Codes, Idaho Alcohol Beverage Control and South
Central Health District current food handling regulations as set forth in the
Idaho Food Code. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-2008; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   Structures, signage and/or the display of merchandise shall comply with
the setback requirements of the district within which it is located. Temporary
structures and merchandise shall be displayed so as not to interfere with the
clear vision triangle. In no case shall items be displayed or business
conducted within the public right-of-way unless otherwise authorized by the
transportation authority and the City.
   F.   Adequate off street parking shall be provided to serve the use. The use
shall not displace the required off street parking spaces, spaces for persons
with disabilities, loading areas and snow storage areas of the principal
permitted uses on the site. The entrance and exit drives shall be designed to
prevent traffic hazards and nuisances. All surfaces used for parking shall be
constructed with paving, vegetative cover or of dustless material. All signs
erected in association with the use shall be in compliance with the City sign
ordinances.
   G.   Compressors, fans, pumps, and other motorized equipment shall be
located or shielded to reduce noise levels to adjoining properties. The site
shall be returned to a clean condition after the termination of the use,
including free of debris and garbage. Unsold food products, trees, greens, or
debris generated by the use shall be properly disposed of off the site.
   H.   Temporary uses shall not result in the construction of any permanent
structures that would not otherwise be permitted subject to the regulations of
this title. Any temporary structures shall be portable and completely removed
at the end of the allowed time period. The applicant shall obtain any necessary
building permits.
   I.   One caretaker unit in a self-contained trailer or recreational vehicle
may be allowed on the site only for the purposes of security and maintenance of
the site. The unit shall be completely removed at the end of the allowed time
period.
   J.   City officials may require additional conditions to mitigate adverse
effects on surrounding properties and may request Council direction on any
business application, particularly regarding traffic generated, compressor and
pump noise, odor, light and glare, dust, and hours of operation. The conditions
may include, but not be limited to, any or all of the following: standards
related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other potentially
objectionable impacts; limits on time of day for the conduct of the specified
use, including deliveries and maintenance; other standards necessary to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare and mitigate adverse effects on
surrounding property. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-2008)
3-1-7-5: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City Clerk, or other official or
employee of the City, as to the issuance of a license in accordance herewith
shall have the right to appeal to the City Council by filing a written appeal
with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days following the date of the action
or decision giving rise to the appeal. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-
2008)
3-1-7-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall be issued as of January 1 of each calendar year and
shall terminate on December 31 of the year in which issued or renewed. (1983
Code § 6.107)
3-1-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil Liability: The City Attorney shall, at the direction of the City
Council, institute civil suit in the name of the City to enforce compliance
with the provisions of this chapter by injunctive relief, declaratory relief or
other civil remedy. The City shall be entitled to recover its costs and
attorney fees from the other party upon prevailing in any such civil action. No
civil judgment, or any act by the City or the violator, shall bar or prevent a
criminal prosecution for each and every violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-
11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-2008)
   B.   Criminal Liability: A person who violates any provision of this chapter
or operates any business or occupation for which a license is required by this
chapter without having first obtained a license, as herein provided, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
deemed separate offense. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008, eff. 4-30-2008; amd. 2018
Code)
3-1-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
None of the licensing provisions of this chapter shall apply to any agency of
the United States government and political subdivisions of the State of Idaho,
including counties, school districts, sewer districts, fire districts, and
other special districts. Charitable entities and organizations shall be exempt
from payment of the license fee required herein, but shall be required to
obtain a license and annual renewals of said license. (Ord. 2008-11, 4-24-2008,
eff. 4-30-2008)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: License Fees
3-2-5: Investigation Of Applicant
3-2-6: Approval Or Denial Of License
3-2-7: Record Of Licenses
3-2-8: Hours And Areas Of Sales
3-2-9: On Premises Consumption Of Beer And Wine
3-2-10: Persons Under Twenty One
3-2-11: Open Containers
3-2-12: Catering Permit
3-2-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-14: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, are hereby defined as follows:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
DESSERT WINE: "Dessert wine" means only those wines that contain more than
sixteen percent (16%) alcohol by volume, but do not exceed twenty four percent
(24%) alcohol by volume.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Idaho State Police.
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK: Retail sale of all kinds of alcoholic liquor as defined in
Idaho Code 23-105, sold by and in a State liquor store of the State of Idaho
except beer and wine as herein defined.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
any group combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well as the
singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning as disclosed by the
context in which it is used.
RESORT CITY RESTAURANT LIQUOR LICENSE: A limited quantity liquor license
obtained pursuant to Idaho code § 23-903(c) and generally available on a first-
come first served basis to restaurants that can demonstrate that the primary
source of revenue from the operation of the restaurant to be licensed will be
derived from food services and not from the sale of liquor.
RETAIL LICENSE: A license issued by the Director authorizing a person to sell
beer, wine or alcoholic liquor by the drink at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail beer or retail wine or wine by the drink or
alcoholic liquor by the drink Municipal license has been issued.
WINE: Wine shall mean any alcoholic beverage containing not more than sixteen
percent (16%) alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural
sugar content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar whether
or not other ingredients are added. (1983 Code § 8.101; amd. Ord. 95-09, 10-26-
1995; 2018 Code; Ord. 2024-03, 11-12-2024)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer at retail or wine at retail or
wine by the drink or alcoholic liquor by the drink within the corporate limits
of the City without having first procured the appropriate license or licenses
therefor from the City. (Ord. 95-09, 10-26-1995; amd. 2018 Code)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Applications for licenses shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by
the applicant upon application forms furnished by the City Clerk. Such
applications shall be filed by the Clerk and presented to the Mayor and Council
at the next meeting of the Council for approval, rejection, or further
consideration. (1983 Code § 8.103)
   B.   The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications
necessary to obtain a license from the Director as prescribed by the laws of
the State of Idaho and must maintain such qualifications throughout the period
for which such license is issued. The possession of licenses regularly issued
by the Idaho State Police and Blaine County shall be prima facie evidence of
the applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. In addition, the
applicant shall not be in arrears in the charges, assessments or fees for any
public service and/or utility due the City with regard to the place of
licensing.
   C.   The applicant/business owner for a license shall be required to attend
an alcohol awareness training approved by the Bellevue Marshall prior to the
issuance or renewal of any City issued liquor, beer, and/or wine license. The
training shall be attended in-person with the Bellevue Marshal’s office, or
online with the Idaho State Police. Proof of attendance is required and shall
be kept on file by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 95-09, 10-26-1995; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2025-02, 3-10-2025)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The license fee imposed and collected for each license required under
this chapter shall be as follows:
License Classification Annual License Fee
License Classification                                      Annual License Fee
Beer:                                                        
 Retail sale of draft beer or bottled or canned beer to be $200.00
  consumed on the premises
 Retail sale of bottled or canned beer to not be consumed  50.00
  on the premises
Wine:                                                        
 Retail sale of wine by the bottle or glass to be consumed 200.00
  on the premises
 Retail sale of wine by the bottle not to be consumed on   200.00
  the premises
Liquor license:                                              
 Retail sale of alcoholic liquor by the drink              375.00
Catering permit                                             20.00 per day
 
   B.   Each license shall be issued for a calendar year beginning at one
minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. on August 1 through July 31. There
shall be no refunds on any license issued. (Ord. 2003-03, 3-13-2003; amd. 2018
Code)
3-2-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation by
the Bellevue Marshal of all applicants. After investigation, the applications
will be forwarded to the City Council with a recommendation from the Bellevue
Marshal. If the Bellevue Marshal recommends that an application be denied, he
shall state in writing:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances or standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reason for the denial; and
   C.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 209, 1-12-1984)
3-2-6: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Time Frame: The City Council shall grant or deny any application within
thirty (30) days of the time it is filed with the City Clerk. (Ord. 209, 1-12-
1984)
   B.   Approval Of License; Transferability: Upon filing the application for
any license and the production of evidence as required by subsection 3-2-3B of
this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the payment of
the required license fee, the Clerk shall, upon approval of the Council, issue
to the applicant a license or licenses to sell beer or wine at retail or
alcoholic liquor by the drink within the City limits of Bellevue for the
appropriate calendar year or the remainder thereof. No retail beer or retail
wine or alcoholic liquor by the drink license issued by the City may be
assigned or transferred in any manner or form unless and until the person
possessing such license makes application for the approval of such assignment
or transfer by the Mayor and City Council. No such license may be assigned or
transferred to any person who does not possess all the qualifications necessary
for the granting of such license pursuant to this chapter. Application for
assignment or transfer shall be made upon a form provided by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 95-09, 10-26-1995; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Denial Of License: In the event the application is denied by the City
Council and prior to any revocation or suspension, the applicant or licensee
shall be afforded a hearing before the City Council. Whenever the Council
denies an application, the Council shall specify in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances or standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reasons for the denial, revocation or suspension; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof, or the actions the licensee could take to
avoid revocation or suspension. (Ord. 209, 1-12-1984)
3-2-7: RECORD OF LICENSES:
In all cases where the City Council is considering applications for licenses,
transfers, or renewals thereof, a transcribable verbatim record of the
proceeding shall be made. If the applicant for a license, transfer or renewal
is denied, a transcribable, verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept
for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention
of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his expense. The
City Council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the
proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by
law. (Ord. 209, 1-12-1984)
3-2-8: HOURS AND AREAS OF SALES:
   A.   Except as provide herein, no person shall sell or purchase alcoholic
liquor by the drink within the City limits on any day between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. Resort City restaurant liquor
license holders shall not sell alcoholic liquor by the drink, offer liquor for
sale, or give away liquor upon the licensed premises within the city limits on
any day between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and four o’clock (4:00)
P.M.
   B.   After food sales and services cease, any patron present on the licensed
premises holding a Resort City restaurant liquor license, shall have thirty
(30) minutes or until ten (10:30) P.M. (whichever is earlier) to consume any
alcoholic liquor already served.
   C.   No business holding a resort city restaurant liquor license shall
promote or operate the restaurant as a bar and lounge. (Ord. 2006-09, 4-13-
2006; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2024-03, 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-02, 3-10-2025)
3-2-9: ON PREMISES CONSUMPTION OF BEER AND WINE:
Persons holding retail beer or retail wine licenses shall not permit the
consumption of beer or wine on the licensed premises unless such retailers also
have all necessary licenses for such consumption. Wine and beer may be sold for
consumption on or off the premises only during the hours set out in section
3-2-8 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 8.107; amd. 2018 Code)
3-2-10: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume,
or possess alcoholic liquor, wine or beer.
   B.   No person shall give, sell, or deliver alcoholic liquor, wine or beer
to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   No person shall in any way aid, assist, or abet in the procurement of
alcoholic liquor, wine or beer for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
   D.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall, by any means,
represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor that he or she is twenty one (21) years or more of age
for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or
employee, to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic liquor, wine or beer to such
person. (Ord. 97-04, 6-12-1997; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or distributor
or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any other person
is twenty one (21) years of age or more, when in fact such person is under the
age of twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing such retailer or
distributor to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic liquor, wine or beer to such
other person. (1983 Code § 8.305; amd. 2018 Code)
3-2-11: OPEN CONTAINERS:
No person shall possess any bottle, glass, can or other container containing
beer, wine, or alcoholic liquor when the seal is broken, top or lid removed
therefrom, or said container is otherwise open, available and prepared for
immediate consumption in or upon any public place, park, sidewalk, street,
alley, highway or other place, regardless of ownership, which is open to and
used by the public, but not including any store, restaurant, bar, or other
premises holding a valid permit for consumption of the beverage in the open
container and not including any person the age of twenty one (21) years or
older attending events in a City park, public street or other public place for
which the event has the permit(s) from the City required to dispense the
beverage in the container. (Ord. 2007-11, 1-25-2007; amd. 2018 Code)
3-2-12: CATERING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Authorized: Any person holding a valid Municipal alcoholic
liquor by the drink, beer or wine license may obtain a catering permit to sell
alcoholic liquor or beer or wine or any combination thereof, based upon the
type of license which the applicant possesses, from the City Clerk pursuant to
Idaho Code section 23-934A. (Ord. 2005-12, 6-23-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit: The retailer shall file an application with the
City Clerk upon a form supplied by the City Clerk at least five (5) days prior
to first proposed day of use of the permit. (Ord. 2005-12, 6-23-2005)
   C.   Location: The permit shall be issued to the retailer for a specified
location, which location shall meet all of the requirements for a premises to
be issued a Municipal alcoholic liquor by the drink, beer or wine license under
this chapter and the laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 2005-12, 6-23-2005; amd.
2018 Code)
   D.   Fee Required: The catering permit fee shall be paid to the City by the
retailer at the time of filing the application for said permit.
   E.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Term:
      1.   The permit shall be issued for a period not to exceed three (3)
consecutive days.
      2.   The City Clerk, upon advice of the City Marshal, may deny an
application for failure of the applicant to provide the required information or
for good cause with regard to the proposed location of the event to be catered.
If an application is denied by the City Clerk, the reasons therefor shall be
given to the applicant in writing, and the application fee shall be returned
less the expenses for administration and costs of investigation incurred. An
applicant denied a catering permit may appeal that decision to the City Council
within ten (10) days of the Clerk's written decision by filing a written notice
of appeal stating the grounds of such appeal with the City Clerk.
   F.   Conditions Of Permit: A catering permit shall be valid only for the
specific location for which it is issued and is nontransferable. (Ord. 2005-12,
6-23-2005)
   G.   Compliance With State And City Laws: The sale and distribution of
alcoholic liquor by the drink, beer and wine under a catering permit shall be
subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the State of
Idaho and the City of Bellevue with regard thereto. (Ord. 2005-12, 6-23-2005;
amd. 2018 Code)
3-2-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remains at all times vested in the Mayor and City
Council to revoke or cancel any license issued pursuant to the terms of this
section for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his employees, or any conduct or act permitted by him or them on
the premises where such business is conducted or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety,
or general welfare of the City. Provided, that revocation or suspension of the
State license by the Director of the Idaho State Police shall be deemed prima
facie evidence for revocation or suspension of any license issued hereunder.
(1983 Code § 8.108; amd. 2018 Code)
3-2-14: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter or any license
issued hereunder shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be subject to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2003-03, 3-13-2003; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Requirements
3-3-3: Records Of Transactions
3-3-4: Time Required For Retention Of Personal Property
3-3-5: Employment Of Minors
3-3-6: Responsibility Of Licensee For Acts Of Employees
3-3-7: Prohibited Acts
3-3-8: Inspections
3-3-9: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
PAWNBROKER: Any person conducting a business which involves or includes loaning
or advancing money upon the deposit, pledge or bailment of personal property of
any kind as security for such loan or advancement, or engaging in any
transaction involving the sale and purchase of personal property wherein said
personal property is, pursuant to agreement, to be repurchased by the vendor,
pledger, bailer, or depositor upon the payment of an agreed sum.
PERSONS: Any individual, firm, partnership, company, corporation, joint
venture, association, or other business entity.
YEAR: The calendar year. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Application And Fee:
      1.   Each and every person engaged in business as a pawnbroker within the
City limits is required to obtain a license by completing a license application
in the form required by the Bellevue Marshal's Office. Applications for said
license may be obtained from the City Clerk.
      2.   When application for a license is made by or on behalf of a
partnership, corporation or association, such application shall be made by the
manager, officer, agent or other person who will have the direct charge and
management of such pawnshop or secondhand store. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999)
      3.   Applicants shall be required to pay a license application fee in the
sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) prior to issuance of the license required
herein. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Marshal's Office
shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant.
      2.   Upon completion of such investigation, if the Marshal's Office finds
that the license applicant qualifies, the City Clerk shall issue a license.
Licenses shall not be transferable either as to person or place. A provisional
license may be issued pending completion of the required investigation.
      3.   The Marshal's Office shall investigate the applicants or other
persons principally in charge of the operation of the business for licenses
pursuant to this chapter and shall report to the City Clerk its
recommendations. The City Clerk shall, if the applicant complies with the
licensing requirements, issue a license to the applicant upon the payment of
the proper fee.
      4.   The license application may be denied for any of the following
reasons:
         a.   Conviction of any felony;
         b.   Failure to have current Bellevue business license.
   C.   Appeal Upon Denial Of License: If the applicant or licensee is
aggrieved by the decision of the City Clerk, the aggrieved party may appeal
such decision to the City Council within thirty (30) days of notice of the
decision of the City Clerk. The applicant or licensee must, in writing, appeal
to the City Council and set forth the reasons therefor why the applicant should
not be denied a license. The City Council shall set a time and place for a
hearing within a reasonable period of time subsequent to the applicant's
written notice of appeal. Notice of such hearing shall be personally served
upon the applicant or licensee, or mailed postage prepaid to the applicant or
licensee at his last known address, at least seven (7) days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
   D.   Posting License: It shall be duty of every person to whom a
pawnbroker's license is issued to prominently display such license in a
conspicuous manner at all times in the pawnshop or secondhand store to which
said license relates.
   E.   Term Of License; Renewals: Each license issued shall be valid for one
year, and licenses must be renewed annually. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-3: RECORDS OF TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Every person subject to the provision of this chapter is required to
keep accurate, legible records of all transactions involving the loaning or
advancing of money upon the deposit, pledge or bailment of personal property of
any kind as security for such loan or advancement, or engaging in any
transaction involving the sale and purchase of personal property wherein said
personal property is, pursuant to agreement, to be repurchased by the vendor,
pledger, bailer, or depositor upon the payment of an agreed sum, and all
purchases of secondhand or used personal property.
   B.   The records shall include, without limitation, the date and time
personal property was taken into possession, whether as security for a loan or
purchased or received for resale, an accurate description of the personal
property, and the person from whom such property was received. All descriptions
of said personal property shall include, whenever possible, the brand name,
model, and serial number of the item or items received. The description of the
person from whom such property is received shall include said individual's full
name, date of birth, a physical description, the individual's social security
number or driver's license number and the individual's physical (street) home
address and mailing address.
   C.   Every record shall be completed and signed by the pawnbroker or
employee and the seller, pledger, trader, or consignor at the time of
execution. The pawnbroker shall compare the signature upon the required
identification with that upon the record. The signature by the seller, pledger,
trader, or consignor shall be a certification that the described property or
article has not been obtained by illegal means and is free and clear of any
encumbrances and the form shall so state.
   D.   All such records shall be prepared in duplicate on forms approved by
the City Marshal, and the duplicate copy shall be furnished to the City Marshal
or any of his deputies upon the official request of such officer.
   E.   No record shall be altered, erased, obliterated, or defaced.
   F.   All personal property described in such record shall be open to the
official inspection of the City Marshal or any of his deputies during
reasonable business hours. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-4: TIME REQUIRED FOR RETENTION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
No personal property acquired or purchased in a transaction described in
section
3-3-1, definition of pawnbroker, of this chapter and subject to the
requirements of section
3-3-3 of this chapter shall be sold or otherwise disposed of prior to
expiration of thirty (30) working or business days (excluding Saturdays,
Sundays, and holidays) following the day on which such personal property was
acquired or purchased by the pawnbroker. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-5: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS:
No pawnbroker subject to this chapter shall employ any individual under the age
of eighteen (18) years to receive or purchase personal property or make or
document loans secured by a pledge or bailment of such personal property. (Ord.
99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-6: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE FOR ACTS OF EMPLOYEES:
The holder of any pawnbroker's license required by this chapter shall be liable
and responsible for any and all acts of his employees and agents and for any
violation of the provision of this chapter by said employees and agents. (Ord.
99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious
address, or any address other than the true address, or to furnish any false,
untrue or misleading information or statement relating to the information
required.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, pledge, pawn, or trade any
goods, chattels or effects, or any personal property, leased or let to him by
any instrument in writing under a contract of purchase not yet fulfilled.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, or any
other person to violate any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-8: INSPECTIONS:
Upon request of the Deputy City Marshal designated by the City Marshal to make
inspections of pawnshops and secondhand stores, the licensee, or anyone acting
on his/her behalf, shall produce any records required to be kept pursuant to
this chapter and shall permit said Deputy Marshal to examine them and shall
permit an inspection of the licensee's premises and all property kept or stored
therein. Any inspection performed pursuant to this section shall occur during
the licensee's regular and usual business hours. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999)
3-3-9: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalty provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 99-01, 2-11-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
YARD AND OTHER SALES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Number Of Sales
3-4-2: Maximum Number Of Days For Sales
3-4-3: Hours Of Sales
3-4-4: Penalty
3-4-1: NUMBER OF SALES:
No person shall conduct and no property owner shall permit more than two (2)
yard sales or other sales of personal property within any one calendar year on
any parcel of real property zoned General Residential Zoning District or
Transitional Zoning District within the City. (Ord. 2007-14, 4-12-2007)
3-4-2: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DAYS FOR SALES:
The maximum number of days for two (2) yard sales or other sales shall not
exceed ten (10) days within any one calendar year. (Ord. 2007-14, 4-12-2007)
3-4-3: HOURS OF SALES:
Yard sales or other sales shall be conducted between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord. 2007-14, 4-12-2007)
3-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2007-14, 4-12-2007; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Mobile Food Vendor Business License Requirements
3-5-2: Criteria
3-5-3: Term Of Mobile Food Vendor License
3-5-4: Fees
3-5-5: South Central Health District Certification
3-5-1: MOBILE FOOD VENDOR BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A mobile food vendor business license shall be required for each mobile food
vendor located within the City of Bellevue, Idaho, in which any person is
engaged in any business or occupation involving self-contained prepared food
service operation. Any person conducting such a business or engaged in such an
occupation shall apply for the required business license by filling out an
application provided by the City Clerk. Mobile food vendors shall operate only
in the Business (B) Zone, unless participating in a City-approved special event
authorized for other locations. Non-food mobile vending is prohibited in all
zones within city limits.
(Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-2021; amd. Ord. 2025-07, 7-28-2025)
3-5-2: CRITERIA:
   A.   Any person who desires to engage in or conduct business in the (B)
Business Zone shall make application to and receive a mobile food vendor's
license from the City Clerk or their designee prior to engaging in or
conducting business.
   B.   Applicants for mobile food vendors' licenses shall file a complete
application for "mobile food vendors license" with the City not less than
thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date such person desires to engage in or
conduct business. The application shall be furnished by the City and shall
contain all information relevant and necessary to determine compliance with the
criteria of approval established herein.
   C.   A separate mobile vendor's license shall be required for each separate
mobile food vending stand, such as, but not limited to, each separate tent,
cart, or other form of stand.
(Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-2021; amd. Ord. 2025-07, 7-28-2025)
3-5-3: TERM OF MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LICENSE:
   A.   Vendor's License: A vendor's license shall be valid May 1 through
October 1.
   B.   Hours of operation for mobile food vendors are eight o’clock (8:00)
a.m. to ten o’clock (10:00) p.m.
(Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-2021; amd. Ord. 2025-07, 7-28-2025)
3-5-4: FEES:
   A.   The license fee shall be paid in advance at the time of filing the
application, and the fee for such license shall be established by resolution
approved by the Council.
   B.   The fees established in this section shall not be prorated and are not
refundable.
   C.   A separate license fee, as identified in this section, shall be
required for each separate mobile vendor.
   D.   All "Special Events" are exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-2021; amd. Ord. 2025-07, 7-28-2025)
3-5-5: SOUTH CENTRAL HEALTH DISTRICT CERTIFICATION:
   The application of any vendor engaged in the sale of any food or product for
human consumption shall obtain certification from the South Central Health
District prior to issuance of a mobile food vendor's license.
(Ord. 2021-08, 6-14-2021; amd. Ord. 2025-07, 7-28-2025)
CHAPTER 6
NON-PROPERTY TAXES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Findings
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Imposition Of Certain Non-Property Taxes
3-6-4: Duration Of Taxes
3-6-5: Purposes Of Taxes
3-6-6: Creation Of A Property Tax Relief Fund
3-6-7: Authority Of City Clerk
3-6-8: Permits; Issuance
3-6-9: Method For Payment Of Taxes
3-6-10: Audits; Deficiency Determinations
3-6-11: Redetermination Of Deficiency
3-6-12: Appeals, Interest On Deficiency
3-6-13: Collections And Enforcement
3-6-14: Refunds, Limitations And Interest
3-6-15: Responsibility For Payment Of Taxes
3-6-16: Period Of Limitation Upon Assessment And Collection
3-6-17: Successors’ Liability
3-6-18: General Administration By City Clerk
3-6-19: Penalties
3-6-20: Penalty Charge
3-6-21: Exemptions
3-6-1: FINDINGS:
The City Council of the City of Bellevue hereby finds that a) the City of
Bellevue is a charter city and a political subdivision of the State of Idaho,
organized under the general laws of the State of Idaho, b) the population of
the City of Bellevue is less than ten thousand (10,000) according to the most
recent census, c) the City of Bellevue has a significant economic dependence
upon visitors and travelers passing through or staying in the City of Bellevue,
and d) the City of Bellevue derives the major portion of its economic well-
being from businesses catering to recreational needs and meeting needs of
people traveling to the City of Bellevue for an extended period of time. Based
on these findings, the Bellevue City Council finds that the City of Bellevue is
a resort city as defined by Idaho Code section 50-1044. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-
2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
CITY:                  The charter city of the City of Bellevue, Blaine County,
                       Idaho.
CITY CLERK:            The duly appointed and acting city clerk for the City,
                       and their duly authorized deputy.
                       Any business including hotels, motels, condominiums,
                       tourist homes, other sleeping accommodations and any
                       other business which in the regular course of business
HOTEL-MOTEL:           rents or leases for occupancy temporary lodging to
                       individuals, with or without meals, except where a
                       residence is maintained continuously under terms of a
                       lease or similar agreement for a period in excess of
                       thirty (30) days.
                       Any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture,
                       association, social club, fraternal organization,
PERSON or PERSON:      corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
                       trustee, syndicate, cooperative, assignee, or any other
                       group or combination acting as a unit.
                       The total amount charged for rental use or temporary
ROOM OCCUPANCY CHARGE: occupancy of a room or living unit in a hotel-motel,
                       valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise,
                       without any deduction.
                       Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional
                       or otherwise, of tangible personal property for a
                       consideration and shall include any similar transfer of
SALE or SELL:          possession found by the state tax commission to be in
                       lieu of, or equivalent to, a transfer of title, exchange
                       or barter. For the purpose of this definition, sale
                       shall include the lease or rental of tangible personal
                       property.
                       The total amount of the room occupancy charge, including
SALES PRICE:           services agreed to be rendered as a part of the sale,
                       rental or lease, valued in money, whether paid in money
                       or otherwise, without any deduction.
                       Any person subject to or liable for any tax or payment
TAXPAYER:              of any tax imposed under this chapter. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-
                       13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
 
3-6-3: IMPOSITION OF CERTAIN NON-PROPERTY TAXES:
Imposition Of Certain Non-Property Taxes: The City hereby imposes and shall
collect certain non-property taxes as follows:
   A.   Hotel-Motel Occupancy Tax: A tax is hereby imposed at the rate of three
percent (3%) on the room occupancy charge for each hotel-motel room or living
unit rented or leased within the City. The hotel-motel occupancy tax shall
apply to and be computed on the rental of all hotel-motel rooms including all
credit, installment, conditional or similar rental or lease fees at the time
the room occupancy charge is charged. The hotel-motel occupancy tax shall be
collected by the owner of the hotel-motel or his authorized agent from the
renter or lessee.
   B.   Fractional Portion: When the sales price involves a fraction of a
dollar, the non-property tax shall be collected on that fractional portion of
the price adding thereto the tax based upon the following bracket system:
Hotel-Motel Occupancy Taxes (3%)
 
$0.01 to $0.24 $0.00
$0.25 to $0.49 0.01
$0.50 to $0.74 0.02
$0.75 to $0.99 0.03
(Each whole dollar $0.03)
 
The retailer shall calculate the tax upon the entire amount of purchases of the
consumer made at a particular time subject to this chapter, and not separately
upon each item purchased. The retailer may retain any amount collected under
the bracket system which is in excess of the amount of tax for which he is
liable to the City during the period as compensation for the work of collecting
the tax.
   C.   Monies Collected Held in Trust: All monies collected and/or retained
under the provisions of this chapter shall be held in trust for the City and
for payment thereof to the City Clerk in the manner and at the times in this
chapter provided. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-4: DURATION OF TAXES:
The non-property taxes authorized and collected under this chapter are hereby
imposed for a duration of five (5) years from the effective date of ordinance
2022-04. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-5: PURPOSES OF TAXES:
The non-property tax revenue derived from and collected under this chapter
shall be used for the following purposes:
   A.   Road repair, maintenance, transportation enhancements, equipment, and
snow removal.
   B.   Direct cost to administer and enforce this chapter. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-
13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-6: CREATION OF A PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND:
There is hereby created in the office of the City Clerk a fund to be designated
as the "Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund." All monies collected under this
chapter, and not otherwise budgeted by the City Council, shall be placed by the
City Clerk into the Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund. All monies collected
and placed into the Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund shall be used to replace
City property taxes in the ensuing fiscal year. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff.
7-1-2022)
3-6-7: AUTHORITY OF CITY CLERK:
The City Clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to administer, regulate and
collect payment of all non-property taxes adopted and imposed by this chapter.
The City Clerk shall have all of the powers set forth in this chapter together
with those additional powers necessary and proper to carry out the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-8: PERMITS; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business of renting
hotel-motel rooms within the City shall file with the City Clerk an application
for a municipal non-property tax permit for each place of business. A separate
permit is required for each place of business within the City. Every
application for such a permit shall be made upon a form prescribed by the City
Clerk and shall set forth the name under which the applicant transacts or
intends to transact business, the location of the business or places of
business, and such other information as the City Clerk may require. The
application shall be signed by the owner, if he is a natural person; or in the
case of an association or limited liability company, by member or partner; or
in the case of a corporation, by an executive officer or other person
authorized by the corporation to sign the application; or in the case of a
partnership, by a partner; or in the case of any other legal entity, by an
authorized person. Initial permits shall be issued upon completion of the
application for each permit sought.
   B.   Upon filing an application meeting the requirements set out above, the
City Clerk shall issue to each applicant a permit for each place of business. A
permit shall not be assignable and shall be valid only for the person or entity
in whose name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place
designated therein. It shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the
location for which it was issued. Issuance of a such permit may be subject to
additional requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   On the face of the permit shall be affixed a municipal non-property tax
number which shall be used by the applicant as an identifying number of all
filing, payment and correspondence with regard to the non-property tax imposed
under this chapter. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-9: METHOD FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
   A.   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be computed and paid for each
calendar month. The taxes imposed by this chapter are due and payable to the
City Clerk on or before the twenty-fifth day of the succeeding month. The
amount of tax paid shall be computed on the total dollar value of the room
occupancy charges. Each person required to hold a municipal non-property tax
permit and number shall file a municipal non-property tax return and a copy of
their Idaho State Sales Tax Return for the month at the same time the taxes
imposed by this chapter are paid to the City Clerk, unless the person has been
permitted in writing by the Idaho State Tax Commission to file quarterly sales
or use tax returns. Persons who have been permitted to file other than
quarterly returns shall notify the City Clerk in writing and the City Clerk
thereupon may require reporting of state tax returns over some other period.
   B.   The first payment of taxes under this chapter shall be due and payable
together on August 25, 2022, for that period beginning July 1, 2022, and ending
July 31, 2022. Thereafter all payments shall be made monthly.
   C.   A municipal non-property tax return shall be filed each and every month
by every person engaging in the rental or lease of hotel-motel rooms regardless
of whether any tax is due. Returns shall be signed by the person required to
file the return or by a duly authorized agent. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff.
7-1-2022)
3-6-10: AUDITS; DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   A.   The City Clerk may order an audit of any Taxpayer under this chapter
for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness or completeness of any return
or payment.
   B.   If any error or omission is discovered in such audits or in any other
way, the City Clerk may compute and determine the amount of tax due upon the
basis of facts obtained from such information within the City Clerk's
possession and assert a deficiency. One or more deficiency determinations may
be made for the amount due for one or for more than one period. In making such
a determination, the City Clerk may offset overpayments against amounts due.
Further, such determinations shall be made for the period or periods in respect
to which the person fails to make a return and shall be based upon any
information which is in the City Clerk's possession.
   C.   The City Clerk shall give written notice of his or her determination
and the amount of the deficiency, including interest at a rate of interest per
annum equal to the New York prime rate of interest as expressed in the Wall
Street Journal, from the date due, to the person from whom such deficiency
amount is due. Such notice may be given personally or mailed to the person at
the address furnished to the City Clerk in the non-property tax permit
application. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-11: REDETERMINATION OF DEFICIENCY:
   A.   Any person against whom a deficiency determination is made under this
chapter, or any person directly interested, may petition in writing for a
redetermination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof. If the petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty
(30) day period, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the
period.
   B.   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the thirty (30) day
period, the City Clerk shall reconsider the determination and, if the person so
requests in the petition, grant the person oral hearing and give said person
ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing personally or by
mail addressed to the person at the address furnished to the City Clerk in the
person's application for a non-property tax permit. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022,
eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-12: APPEALS, INTEREST ON DEFICIENCY:
   A.   When a redetermination is made, the City Clerk shall give notice to the
taxpayer against whom the redetermination is made. Within thirty (30) days of
the date upon which such notice of redetermination is mailed or served, the
taxpayer may file an appeal with the City Council or may file a complaint with
the District Court for review of the City Clerk's redetermination. There shall
be no right of review to the City Council nor to the District Court on the
determination of taxes due made by the City Clerk unless a petition for
redetermination has been timely filed. No assessment of a deficiency in respect
to the tax imposed by this chapter or proceeding to collect for its collection
shall be made, begun or prosecuted until such notice has been mailed to the
Taxpayer and expiration of such thirty (30) day period after notice of
redetermination, nor if a protest is filed until a decision on the protest
becomes final. If the Taxpayer does not protest to the City Council or file an
action in District Court within the time prescribed in this section, the
deficiency shall be assessed and shall become due and payable upon notice and
demand from the City Clerk.
   B.   Interest upon any deficiency shall be assessed at the same time as the
deficiency and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the
City Clerk and shall be collected as part of the tax at a rate per annum equal
to the New York prime rate of interest as expressed in the Wall Street Journal,
from the date prescribed for payment of the tax. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff.
7-1-2022)
3-6-13: COLLECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
As soon as practical after a monthly municipal non-property tax return and
payment is filed, the City Clerk shall examine the same, and determine the
correct amount of the tax. For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of
any payment, determining the amount of tax due where none has been made,
determining the liability of any person for any tax payable under this chapter
or the liability at law or in equity of any person in respect to any tax
provided by this chapter, or collecting any such liability, the City Clerk is
authorized:
   A.   To examine the books, papers, records or other data which may be
relevant or material to the inquiry;
   B.   To summon the person liable for the tax or any officer, agent or
employee of such person, or any person having possession, custody or care of
books of accounting containing entries relating to the business of the person
liable for the tax, to appear before the City Clerk, at a time and place named
in its summons to produce such books, papers, records or other data and/or give
such testimony under oath as may be relevant or material to such inquiry. (Ord.
2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-14: REFUNDS, LIMITATIONS AND INTEREST:
   A.   If the City Clerk determines that any amount due under this chapter has
been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
computed, the City Clerk shall set forth that fact in its records and the
excess amount paid or collected may be credited on any amount due or payable to
the City Clerk for non-property taxes from that person, and any balance
refunded to the person by whom it was paid or to his successors, administrators
or executors.
   B.   No such credit or refund shall be allowed or made after one year from
the time the payment was made unless before the expiration of such period a
claim therefore is filed by the taxpayer.
   C.   Interest shall be allowed on the amount of such credits or refunds at a
rate of interest per annum equal to the New York prime rate of interest as
expressed in the Wall Street Journal from the date which such tax was paid.
   D.   Appeal from the City Clerk's decision denying in part or in whole a
claim for refund shall be made in accordance with the laws of the State of
Idaho with regard to claims against municipalities. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022,
eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-15: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
Every person with a duty to account for or pay over any tax imposed by this
chapter on behalf of a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or
other legal entity, as an officer, employee or agent of the entity, shall be
personally liable for payment of such tax, plus penalties and interest. (Ord.
2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-16: PERIOD OF LIMITATION UPON ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   The amount of taxes imposed under this chapter shall be assessed within
three (3) years of the time the return upon which the tax asserted to be due
was or should have been filed, whichever is later; provided, however, if a
deficiency determination or assessment has been made within the prescribed
time, such tax may be collected within a period of six (6) years after
assessment. The running of limitations provided by this section shall be
suspended for the period during which the City Clerk is prohibited from making
the assessment or from collecting or proceeding in court due to a petition for
redetermination or an appeal therefrom, and for thirty (30) days thereafter.
   B.   In the cases of taxes due during the lifetime of a decedent, the tax
shall be assessed and proceedings for collection begun with six (6) months
after written request therefore (filed after the return is made) by the
executor, administrator, or other fiduciary representing the estate of such
decedent unless the assessment is stayed by a petition for redetermination or
any appeal therefrom.
   C.   In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade tax,
or of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in
court for collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time
within three (3) years after the date of the discovery of the facts
constituting the fraud, or discovery of the failure to file. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-
13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-17: SUCCESSORS’ LIABILITY:
   A.   If a vendor liable for any amount of tax due under this chapter sells
out his business or stocks and goods, the vendee shall make an inquiry to the
City Clerk and withhold from the purchase price any amount of tax that may be
due under this chapter until such time as the vendor produces a receipt stating
that no amount is due.
   B.   If the purchaser of business or stock of goods fails to withhold from
the purchase price, as above required, the purchaser or officer, employee or
agent of the entity is personally liable for the payment of the amount required
to withheld by him, which amount shall become immediately due and payable with
interest as herein provided, and suit may be filed within the time limit set
forth in subsection
3-6-16A of this chapter. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-18: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BY CITY CLERK:
   A.   The City Clerk shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and may
prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to its
administration and enforcement. The City Clerk may employ qualified auditors
for examination of taxpayer's books and records, and shall also employ such
accountants, investigators, assistants, clerks, and other personnel as are
necessary for the efficient administration of this chapter and may delegate
authority to his or her representatives to conduct hearings, or perform other
duties imposed by this chapter.
   B.   Every hotel-motel owner in this City shall keep such records, receipts,
invoices, and other pertinent papers as the City Clerk may require. Every such
hotel-motel owner who files tax payments required under this chapter shall keep
all such records for not less than four (4) years after making such payments
unless the City Clerk in writing authorizes their destruction.
   C.   The City Clerk, or any person authorized in writing by the clerk, may
examine the books, papers, records and equipment of any hotel-motel owner or
any person liable for any tax thereon, and may investigate the character of the
business of the person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or
if no return is made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount
required to be paid. Any hotel-motel owners whose pertinent records are kept
outside of the City, must bring the records to the City for examination by the
City Clerk upon request of the City Clerk, or by agreement with the City Clerk
permit an auditor designated by the City Clerk to visit the place where the
records are kept, and there audit such records. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff.
7-1-2022)
3-6-19: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to one year in the county jail, and/or three
hundred dollars ($300.00) fine, or both. Furthermore, each month in which a
person fails to report, or intentionally fails to accurately compute, or
intentionally fails to accurately disclose the total amount of sales or rentals
or the amount of tax to be paid, as imposed under this chapter, shall be
considered a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have his or
her municipal non-property tax permit and tax number revoked. The City Clerk
shall send written notice of revocation of the permit and tax number to the
permit holder by mailing the permit certified mail to the address given on the
permit application. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date
the notice is mailed to file a written request for appeal with the City
Council, challenging the revocation. If no appeal is timely made, the
revocation becomes final. Whenever a person subject to this chapter has had a
permit and tax number revoked, the City Clerk shall not reissue the permit nor
issue a new permit to the person until the person places with the City Clerk a
bond or other sufficient security in the amount equal to three (3) times the
actual, determined or estimated average monthly amount of tax payable by such
person pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   The City Clerk, whenever it is deemed necessary to ensure compliance
with this chapter, may require any person subject to this chapter to place with
the City Clerk such security as the City Clerk may determine, but not in an
amount greater than three (3) times the estimated average monthly amount
payable by such person pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security may
be increased or decreased by the City Clerk at any time, subject to the
limitations set forth above.
   D.   Any amount of tax due under this chapter for which a person fails to
report or accurately compute, shall become a lien upon the property of the
taxpayer on the date that the same becomes due, and the City may seek to
enforce the lien and collect all taxes and interest due together with the
reasonable costs of collection, including attorney's fees, in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   E.   For the purpose of proper administration of this chapter and to prevent
evasion of non-property taxes, the burden of proving that the rental of a
hotel-motel room is not subject to a non-property tax imposed by this chapter,
is upon the person who makes the sale or rental in question. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-
13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-20: PENALTY CHARGE:
Any person who is required to collect, truthfully account for and pay over any
tax imposed by this chapter and who willfully fails to collect such a tax or
truthfully account for or pay over such a tax, or willfully attempts in any
manner to evade or defeat such a tax or payment thereof, shall, in addition to
other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty equal to five percent
(5%) per month for a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the
tax evaded, or not collected, or not accounted for and paid over. The City
Clerk shall determine and assess such penalties, and the same shall become due
and payable upon notice and demand from the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
send written notice of such penalty charge to the permit holder by mailing the
notice by certified mail to the address given on the permit application. The
permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date the notice is mailed to
file a written request of appeal with the City Council challenging the penalty
charge determination. If no appeal is timely made, the penalty charge
determination becomes final. (Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
3-6-21: EXEMPTIONS:
All transactions by the State of Idaho, otherwise subject to imposition of the
taxes imposed by this chapter, are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-04, 6-13-2022, eff. 7-1-2022)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE, JUNK AND GLASS CONTAINERS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Accumulation, Prohibited Deposits Of Garbage And Junk
4-1-3: Garbage Container Placement On Public Ways And Property Prohibited
4-1-4: Garbage Dumpsters
4-1-5: Motor Vehicle Restrictions
4-1-6: Glass Containers For Liquids Prohibited
4-1-7: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words not specifically defined herein shall be given the common and
ordinary meaning generally applied to such words.
GARBAGE: Unwanted or useless material including animal, vegetable, or mineral
matter discarded by any person or persons for any reason. The term "garbage"
shall include tin and aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles, leaves, weeds,
cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs or gardens, paper products, wood products,
plastics, and synthetic substances of any kind.
GARBAGE CONTAINER: Any and all containers, whether or not designed or intended
for such use, which are in fact used for storage and/or collection of garbage
or junk.
JUNK: Any used material or parts of material units which have become useless
for the purpose for which said material or materials were originally fabricated
or manufactured and shall include, but not be limited to: automobiles and other
motor vehicles not licensed for the current year, furniture, appliances, lawn
and garden tools and equipment, and machinery and component parts thereof.
OWNER/OCCUPANT: Any person in possession, charge or control of any dwelling,
flat, rooming house, shop, place of business, or dwelling or outbuilding of any
kind where garbage or junk is created or accumulated. (1983 Code § 3.601; amd.
Ord. 96-11, 10-24-1996)
4-1-2: ACCUMULATION, PROHIBITED DEPOSITS OF GARBAGE AND JUNK:
   A.   Accumulation: It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any
property located within the City to allow garbage or junk to accumulate upon
real property owned or occupied by such person; provided, however, that no
person may be convicted for a violation of this subsection without having
received, in writing, notice of intention to prosecute pursuant to this
subsection at least fifteen (15) days prior to the signing of a complaint
charging a violation of this subsection. (1983 Code § 3.604)
   B.   Prohibited Deposits:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, or place any
garbage or junk on the streets, alleys, or public places in the City. (1983
Code § 3.602)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or place any garbage
or junk in any garbage container not owned by such person without the expressed
authorization of the owner of such garbage container.
   C.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement:
      1.   The City declares the keeping by any person of any garbage or junk
on premises owned or occupied by such person or the placing thereof on streets,
alleys, or public places within the City to be a nuisance.
      2.   The City may remove or abate such nuisance after first having given
the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such garbage or junk has
accumulated or the person responsible for the placing of such garbage or junk
upon public places fifteen (15) days in which to remove or cause to be removed
said nuisance. The expense of such removal to the City shall be charged to the
person owning or occupying the premises concerned, and such expense shall
constitute a lien upon such real property, and the amount thereof may be
certified to the proper officer of Blaine County for collection in the same
manner as for taxes as provided by law. The City may, in its discretion, also
institute a civil action for the removal and abatement of any nuisance existing
within the City. (1983 Code § 3.605)
4-1-3: GARBAGE CONTAINER PLACEMENT ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
Except for the temporary placement for pickup by a licensed garbage disposal
business, it shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain on any
public street, alley or other public place within the City any garbage can,
garbage dumpster or other container for the storage of garbage or junk. (Ord.
96-11, 10-24-1996; amd. 2018 Code)
4-1-4: GARBAGE DUMPSTERS:
   A.   Prohibited In Certain Zoning Districts; Exceptions: No person shall
use, permit the use of or place a garbage dumpster (defined as any garbage can,
container or other receptacle which has a storage capacity greater than 95
gallons) on any private or public property within the General Residential
Zoning District or the Transitional Zoning District of the City. Dumpsters used
by public schools, parks and other public entities shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   B.   Dumpster Use By Permit:
      1.   Permits Enumerated:
         a.   Temporary Construction: A person who is engaged in the
construction or remodeling of a structure may make application for a temporary
dumpster permit for a period not to exceed three (3) months to place a dumpster
on private property for the purpose of depositing construction debris therein.
Upon completion of the construction project or expiration of the permit, the
dumpster shall be removed.
         b.   Group Homes: An established "group home", defined as a facility
providing assisted living to five (5) or more unrelated persons, such as a
senior housing facility, may make application for a dumpster permit to place a
dumpster on private property and within an enclosure which screens it from view
from adjacent private property and public ways.
         c.   Lawful Nonconforming Business Uses: Dumpsters used by lawful
nonconforming business uses as defined in the City zoning ordinance. Such
dumpsters shall be located on private property and enclosed by a wood fence
which screens it from view from adjacent private property and public ways, and
shall have a current dumpster permit. A person may make application for such a
dumpster permit with the City Marshal as provided in subsection B2 of this
section.
      2.   Application For Permit; Fees And Conditions: Applications for a
dumpster permit shall be provided by the City Marshal's Office. The completed
application form, together with a ten dollar ($10.00) permit application fee,
shall be filed with the City Marshal's Office. As a condition of each dumpster
permit, the dumpster shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall not emit odor detectible on any neighboring property.
   C.   Impoundment Of Dumpsters: The City Marshal is hereby authorized to
impound any dumpster located within the right-of- way of any public street or
alley within the City. The owner of an impounded dumpster shall pay to the City
an impound fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a storage fee of three dollars
($3.00) per day for each day, or portion thereof, the dumpster is impounded by
the City prior to reclaiming possession of the dumpster. Said impound and
storage fees shall be paid to the City Marshal's Office and shall be in
addition to any fine for violation of this section. (Ord. 99-05, 5-13-1999)
   D.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties: A violation of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor, and any person convicted of violating this section
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 99-05, 5-13-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
4-1-5: MOTOR VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Damaged Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Any damaged motor vehicle, as defined herein, not in the process of
immediate repair, will be parked behind fences or barriers out of public view.
      2.   All damaged motor vehicles in public view will be parked in an
orderly manner.
      3.   No salvaging or dismantling of motor vehicles or parts of motor
vehicles will be permitted.
      4.   The term "damaged motor vehicle", as used in this subsection, shall
mean any motor vehicle awaiting repair to its engine or body. (Ord. 227, 12-8-
1988)
   B.   Inoperable Motor Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to place
or maintain on any public street, alley or other public place within the City
any motor vehicle which is not in operating condition, meaning a motor vehicle,
or part thereof, which is not able to move under its own power including,
without limitation, any motor vehicle which does not have an operating motor or
drive train or transmission.
   C.   Repair Of Vehicle On Public Ways And Property: It shall be unlawful for
any person to repair a motor vehicle on any public street, alley or other
public property within the City except for emergency roadside repairs taking no
more than twelve (12) continuous hours.
   D.   Vehicle Parked In Excess Of Three Days: It shall be unlawful for any
person to continuously park a motor vehicle on any public street, alley or
other public property within the City for a period of time in excess of three
(3) consecutive days. (Ord. 96-11, 10-24-1996)
4-1-6: GLASS CONTAINERS FOR LIQUIDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to possess any bottle,
drinking glass, glass cup or glass or crockery vessel of any kind containing
any beverage when the seal is broken, top or lid removed therefrom, or
otherwise opened, available or prepared for immediate consumption in or upon
any public place, park, sidewalk, roadway, alley, highway, or other place,
regardless of ownership, open to and used by the public, but not including any
store, licensed premises, or other place where any beverage may be consumed.
(1983 Code § 3.606)
4-1-7: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 96-11, 10-24-1996; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Prohibited Noises
4-2-3: Exemptions
4-2-4: Special Events
4-2-5: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle belonging to a Fire Department, a fire
district, or an ambulance, or a motor vehicle belonging to a Federal, State,
County or Municipal law enforcement agency.
LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICE: Any equipment designed or used for sound production,
reproduction or amplification, including, but not limited to, any radio,
television, phonograph, musical instrument, stereo, tape player, compact disc
player, loudspeaker, public address (PA) system, sound amplifier or comparable
sound broadcasting device.
PLACE OF RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof adapted or used for
overnight accommodation of any person. In the event the building is used for
multiple residential units (i.e., apartments, condominiums, hotels, motels,
duplexes, etc.), each individual unit shall be considered a separate residence
for the purposes of this chapter.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Sound for which the information content is clearly
communicated to the listener, including, but not limited to, understandable
spoken speech, and comprehensible musical rhythms, melody or instrumentation,
and the source of which is identifiable to the listener. (Ord. 97-11, 10-9-
1997)
4-2-2: PROHIBITED NOISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or continue, or cause to be made or
continued, any loud or unnecessary noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the
limits of the City including, without limitation, the following:
   A.   Horns And Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, truck, or other vehicle on any street or
public place of the City, except as a danger warning, which, by causing noise
disturbs the peace, comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity;
   B.   Loud Noises And Amplification Devices: Any noise or the use of any
amplification device in such a manner that the sound therefrom:
      1.   Is plainly audible within any place of residence not the source of
the sound; or
      2.   Is plainly audible upon a public right-of-way or street at a
distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the source of such sound; or
      3.   Upon or within a motor vehicle in such a manner that the sound
therefrom is plainly audible upon a public right-of-way or street at a distance
of fifty feet (50') or more from the source of such sound.
   C.   Animals: The keeping of any animal which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, disturbs the peace, comfort, or repose of any person in the
vicinity.
   D.   Exhaust: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine or stationary internal combustion which, by causing noise, disturbs the
peace, comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
   E.   Construction Or Repairing Buildings: The erection (including
excavating) of new buildings and demolition and major alteration or repair of
any existing building other than between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weekdays and the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays, except in case of
urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety. Major alteration
or repair is defined as having a value in excess of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00).
   F.   Pile Drivers, Hammers, Explosives, Etc.: The operation of any pile
driver, steam shovel, backhoe, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric
hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual
noise, and blasting and other use of explosives other than between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on weekdays and the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on Saturdays and
Sundays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health
and safety. (Ord. 97-11, 10-9-1997)
4-2-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following sounds are exempted from the provisions of section
4-2-2 of this chapter:
   A.   Sounds caused by any emergency vehicle and equipment, snow removal
equipment and lawn maintenance equipment.
   B.   Sounds caused by activities upon any Municipal or school or other
publicly owned property or facility; provided, that such activities have been
authorized by the owner thereof.
   C.   Sounds caused by parades or other public events for which a permit for
that type of activity is required and has been obtained, provided the same is
conducted in conformance with said permit.
   D.   Sounds caused by burglar alarms and other safety alarms.
   E.   Sounds caused by devices approved for use by the City within the
confines of the particular zoning designation in which the device is located or
pursuant to a use permit issued by the City.
   F.   Sounds emanating from devices used within the common areas of a
commercial or light industrial complex which have been approved by the owners
or management of said complex and only to the extent that the noise is plainly
audible within units within said complex. (Ord. 97-11, 10-9-1997)
4-2-4: SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   Permit Requirements; Exemptions:
      1.   Upon a written request, which shall be made to the Mayor at least
seven (7) days prior to the date of said event, the Mayor may issue a special
event permit as provided herein. Said request shall state the entity requesting
said permit, the location, time and date of said event, and the nature of the
event for which the permit is sought. (Ord. 97-11, 10-9-1997)
      2.   All permits shall be approved by City department heads in writing.
(Ord. 97-11, 10-9-1997; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Parades and other special community events sponsored by the City
shall be deemed to have received the permit without a request therefor.
   B.   Conditions Of Event:
      1.   The event shall be conducted in a manner to reasonably minimize the
noise created thereby given the nature of the event.
      2.   The Mayor may impose reasonable conditions on the event. (Ord. 97-
11, 10-9-1997)
4-2-5: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 97-11, 10-9-1997; amd. 2018 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Code Adopted
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Amendments To Code
5-1-4: Appeals
5-1-5: Criminal Penalties; Civil Enforcement
5-1-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The International Fire Code, 2006 edition, including appendix B (Fire Flow
Requirements), appendix C (Fire Hydrant Location and Distribution), appendix D
(Hazard Categories), and appendix E (Hazard Rankings), published by the
International Code Council, are hereby adopted by reference by the City, except
as hereinafter amended (collectively referred to herein as the "International
Fire Code"), as if fully set forth herein. The adopted International Fire Code,
2006 edition, shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of said
International Fire Code and appendices as the same are duly adopted or approved
by the Idaho Building Code Board effective the date any such Code is made
effective by the Idaho Building Code Board, and the amendments thereto set
forth in this chapter shall also be effective with regard to any such
successive code and shall remain in full force and effect the effective date of
adoption of a new version of any such International Fire Code and appendices by
the Idaho Building Code Board. One copy of the code adopted by this section
shall be kept on file in the office of the Code official or City Clerk for use
and examination by the public. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The International Fire Code, 2006 edition (the "code"), is hereby amended,
altered and changed as follows by the addition of the following language: (Ord.
2010-04, 8-17-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
   A.   Wherever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the International Fire
Code, it shall mean the City of Bellevue, Idaho. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010)
5-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The International Fire Code, 2006 edition (the "code"), is hereby amended,
altered and changed as follows: (Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
Section 103.2 of the code is deleted in its entirety and a new Section 103.2 is
hereby adopted as follows:
103.2 Appointment. The Fire Chief appointed by Bellevue is hereby designated as
the code official (also referred to as the "Fire Chief" herein).
Section 105.1.1 of the code is deleted in its entirety and a new Section
105.1.1 is hereby adopted as follows:
105.1.1. Permits Required And Permit Fees. Operational Permits required by this
code shall be obtained from the code official and the permit fees, as
established by resolution, shall be paid at the time of making application for
the permit. Operational permits shall be kept on the premises designated
therein at all times and shall be readily available for inspection by the code
official. The initial operational permit schedule for certain permits issued
and inspections conducted under the International Fire Code, as adopted by
ordinance, shall be as set forth in Exhibit A, on file in the City and
incorporated herein by reference. Said Exhibit A, Operational Permit Schedule,
may hereafter be amended, altered and changed by Resolution of the Bellevue
Common Council. The Fire Chief may waive or reduce the fees required per
adopted resolution upon approval by the Common Council in appropriate cases for
governmental agencies where the Common Council determines it is in the public
interest to waive or reduce said fees. All such fees shall be paid, by the
applicant at the time of filing the application.
105.1.1(A). Fire Department Plan Check And Fees. When other services are
required of the Fire Department as depicted in Exhibit "A" Operational Permit
Schedule on file in the City including, but not limited to, building permit
plan check/review, or other services as depicted in Exhibit "A" under the
Required Construction Permit section as submitted to the Bellevue Fire
Department, the same shall be reviewed by the Fire Chief for compliance with
the International Fire Code and a fire department plan check fee shall be paid
by the applicant. Said fire department plan check fee shall be as set forth per
adopted resolution. Payment of this fee is required at the time of the filing
of application for a building permit. Where plans are incomplete or changed so
as to require additional plan review, an additional fire department plan check
fee may be charged at the rate set forth per adopted resolution.
105.1.1(B) Subdivision And Development Plan Review Fees. Whenever a
subdivision, planned unit development, design review application or application
for construction or development is required under the Bellevue Zoning
Ordinance, or Bellevue Subdivision Ordinance is submitted to Bellevue, the same
shall be reviewed by the Fire Chief for compliance of the proposal with the
International Fire Code and a Fire Department review fee ("development review
fee") shall be paid by the applicant. Said development review fee shall be as
set forth per adopted resolution and shall be paid at the time of submitting
such permit application. Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional review, an additional development review fee may be charged at the
rate set forth per adopted resolution.
Section 105.7.11 of said code is amended as follows:
All such systems shall be installed by a person holding a valid license
therefore issued by the State of Idaho Fire Marshall.
Section 307.1 of said code is amended as follows:
307.1 A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be kindled or
maintained any open burning unless a written permit therefore is first obtained
from the Fire Chief and such open burning shall be conducted in accordance with
Bellevue's Open Burn Policy, established by Ordinance of the Bellevue Common
Council, and the terms and conditions of such permit and the provisions of this
section.
Section 3704.2.2.7 of said code is amended as follows:
Exception: Emergency response kits recommended by the Chlorine Institute may be
used for chlorine gas products leaks in lieu of the treatment system
requirements of this section as long as there are adequate and available
responders who are trained in their use.
Appendix B, section B105 of said code is hereby amended by the addition of a
subsection B105.3 and a subsection B105.4 as follows:
B105.3 New Buildings. Any new building creating a demand fire flow in excess of
two thousand gallons per minute based upon Table B-105 is required to have
installed and in operating condition, prior to the time the building is
occupied, a fire sprinkler system conforming to the requirements of the
International Fire Code and the International Building Code as adopted by
Bellevue.
B105.4 Existing Buildings. Any addition to or remodeling of an existing
building creating a demand fire flow within the entire building in excess of
two thousand (2,000) gallons per minute based upon Table B-105 shall be
required before the time that the new or remodeled portion of the building is
occupied, a fire sprinkler system which conforms to the requirements of the
International Fire Code and the International Building Code as adopted by
Bellevue.
Appendix D, section D104.2 of the International Fire Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section D104.2 Buildings exceeding 36,000 square feet in gross floor area.
Building or facilities having a gross floor area of more than 36,000 square
feet shall be provided with two separate and approved fire apparatus access
roads. Exception: Projects with all buildings equipped throughout with approved
automatic sprinkler systems may be approved with a single approved fire
apparatus access road.
   (Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010)
Appendix D, section D106 of the International Fire Code is amended as follows:
Section D106.1 Multi-Family Residential Developments.
D106.1 Buildings exceeding 35 feet in height. Buildings exceeding thirty five
(35) feet in height shall have at least three (3) approved means of fire
apparatus access for each structure
(Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
D106.2 Multi-family residential developments. Multi- family residential
projects shall be equipped with two (2) separate and approved fire apparatus
access roads, except multi-family dwelling unit projects having less than
thirty-six (36) units may have a single approved fire apparatus access road not
to exceed one hundred fifty (150) feet in length.
D106.3 Remoteness. Where two (2) fire apparatus access roads are required, they
shall be placed at a distance apart equal to not less than one-half the length
of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the property or area to be served,
measured in a straight line between accesses, except where the Fire Chief has
determined that the topography prohibits the provision of the required
separation of multiple fire apparatus access roads, the Fire Chief may consider
other configurations for such multiple access roads then provide comparable
provision of such access.
Appendix D107 of the International Fire Code is amended as follows:
Section D107 Single Family Dwellings. Single family dwelling developments of
more than four (4) units shall be provided with two or more fire apparatus
access roads, and shall meet the requirements of Section D-106. Single family
dwelling developments of four (4) units or less shall provide a minimum twenty-
six (26) foot wide driveway meeting the requirements for fire apparatus access.
(Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010)
5-1-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the Fire Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit
applied for under the International Fire Code, the applicant may appeal in
writing the decision of the Fire Chief to the Common Council within thirty (30)
days of the date of the decision appealed. Such an appeal shall be filed with
the City Clerk and shall state with particularity the grounds of the appeal. A
decision of the Fire Chief not so appealed within the thirty (30) day period
shall be final and not subject to further review or appeal. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-
17-2010)
5-1-5: CRIMINAL PENALTIES; CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Criminal Penalties: Any person, firm, association, or corporation that
fails to comply with or violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that said violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings, at law or in
equity, may be instituted by the City to restrain or abate violations of this
chapter or compel compliance herewith, or to prevent illegal construction or
occupancy of any building, structure, or premises in violation of this chapter,
together with appropriate damages therefor. These remedies shall be cumulative
and in addition to all other legal remedies and penalties provided by law.
(Ord. 2010-04, 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-2-1: Policy And Purpose
5-2-2: Allowable Burns Not Requiring A Permit
5-2-3: Allowable Burns Requiring A Permit
5-2-4: Prohibited Burns
5-2-5: Restricted Materials; Citation
5-2-6: Inspections; Activation Of Permit
5-2-7: Conditions Of Permit
5-2-8: No Exceptions Criteria
5-2-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The City Open Burn Policy is to conditionally allow for open burning within the
City limits. The guidelines and regulations are to protect and promote the
public health, safety, welfare and quality of life. The regulations and
guidelines are compiled from State and local Fire Codes as well as codes
pertaining to air and aesthetic regulations. The City Fire Department's Open
Burn Policy is hereby adopted as set out in this chapter. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-
2010)
5-2-2: ALLOWABLE BURNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT:
Allowable burns which do not require an open burn permit are:
   A.   Barbecues.
   B.   Campfires (in an established fire ring or area).
   C.   Fire Department trainings.
   D.   Fireplaces. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-2010)
5-2-3: ALLOWABLE BURNS REQUIRING A PERMIT:
Allowable restricted burns which require a permit, an applicable inspection and
activation compliance prior to burn are as follows:
   A.   Bonfires.
   B.   Ceremonial fires.
   C.   Fuel reductions (based on the degree of hazard).
   D.   Open flame torches.
   E.   Weed control. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-2010)
5-2-4: PROHIBITED BURNS:
No open burning is allowed during a National Weather Service red flag warning.
(Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-2010)
5-2-5: RESTRICTED MATERIALS; CITATION:
The following materials are restricted and if burned may result in a citation:
Asphalt materials.
Commercial/industrial wastes.
Dead animals or animal waste.
Demolition debris.
Flammable liquids.
Hazardous materials.
Household waste.
Insulated wire.
Junk motor vehicles and/or parts.
Pathogenic waste.
Plastics of any kind.
Tar and petroleum products.
Tires and/or rubber materials.
Trade wastes.
Treated wood of any kind.
Yard waste (leaves, grass, twigs). (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-2010)
5-2-6: INSPECTIONS; ACTIVATION OF PERMIT:
All permits require an inspection before issued. Prior to burning, the issued
permit shall be activated. To activate the permit, the applicant shall contact
the City Fire Department to schedule applicable site inspections before each
burn. The Fire Marshal/Chief has the authority to discontinue any open burn.
Contact phone numbers are 208-788-9277 or 208-481-2141. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-
2010)
5-2-7: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   No open burn fires requiring permits shall be left unattended.
   B.   Fires shall not be greater than six feet (6') in diameter and four feet
(4') in height and shall not be conducted within fifty feet (50') of a
structure.
   C.   The ground shall be clear of burnable materials for ten feet (10')
outside of the fire in all directions.
   D.   Activation is required as stated in section
5-2-6 of this chapter.
   E.   The permit will allow burning from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. only. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-2010)
5-2-8: NO EXCEPTIONS CRITERIA:
There are no exceptions to the following criteria:
   A.   You as a permit holder must be in legal control of the lot or parcel in
which the burn is taking place.
   B.   The permit applicant shall be solely responsible for all costs
associated with the extinguishment of the burn and will ensure that the burn is
completely extinguished before leaving the burn site.
   C.   There shall be a minimum of one-half inch (1/2") garden hose, or its
equivalent, available with a responsible adult fire tender. The fire tender
shall be in constant attendance on location of the burn site at all times
during the burn.
   D.   Additional fire protection may be required depending on the amount and
type of material to be burned and its proximity to any surrounding hazards.
   E.   The burn site may be inspected at any time by fire or law enforcement
officials to ensure that all requirements are being met. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-
2010)
   F.   Any person(s) not complying with this policy or failing to obtain a
permit may be issued a citation under City ordinance and IFC 109.3 and may be
punishable for a misdemeanor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, per violation. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-17-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Rules And Definitions
5-3-3: Dogs
5-3-3-1: Dog Free Areas; Exceptions
5-3-3-2: Licensing Provisions
5-3-3-3: Running At Large
5-3-3-4: Directing Dog To Harass Or Attack
5-3-3-5: Use Of Dog In Illegal Activity
5-3-4: Dogs And Cats
5-3-5: Farm Animals And Bees
5-3-6: Nondomestic Animals
5-3-7: Found Stray Animals
5-3-8: Rabies Control
5-3-9: Treatment Of Animals
5-3-10: Exposing Poisonous Substances To Animals Or Persons
5-3-11: Noisy Animals
5-3-12: Excrement Removal Required
5-3-13: Foul Or Offensive Animals, Housing Or Premises
5-3-14: Animals Presenting Immediate Danger
5-3-15: Diseased Animals
5-3-16: Depositing Dead Animals Within City Limits
5-3-17: Enforcement Officials
5-3-18: Animal Control Shelter
5-3-19: Impoundment Of Animals
5-3-20: Habitual Violator
5-3-21: Nonliability Of City
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the public health, safety
and welfare and the quality of life by establishing regulations for domestic
animals, nondomestic animals, and farm animals within the City limits. (Ord.
2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-2: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the present tense shall include the past and
future tenses, and the future the present. Each gender shall include all
genders. The singular number shall include the plural, and plural the singular.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words shall be defined as follows:
ABANDON: To leave an animal unattended for more than twenty four (24) hours
without making arrangements for its proper care, sustenance and shelter, or
releasing the animal upon public highways or public or private lands.
ABATEMENT: The termination of any violation of this chapter by lawful and
reasonable means as determined by the animal control agency personnel in order
that a person or persons presumed to be the owner of an animal comply with this
chapter.
ANIMAL: Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
Birds Of Prey: Those birds of the raptor family, legally obtained and kept
under State and Federal law, and kept for the purpose of falconry or any
noncommercial use.
Domestic Animals: Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated household
pets that have traditionally, through a long association with humans, lived in
a state of dependence upon humans or have been traditionally kept as a
household pet. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs, cats,
ferrets, caged birds, pigeons, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated
rabbits, chinchillas, fish, nonpoisonous, nonvenomous and nonconstricting
reptiles or amphibians, and other similar animals.
Farm Animals: Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing work
in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall
include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese potbellied pigs), goats, bees, llamas, alpacas, and other
animals associated with a farm, ranch or stable.
Nondomestic Animals: Those animals commonly considered to be naturally wild and
not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly considered to be
inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of people. Unless
otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
   A.   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including cougars,
bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly accepted domesticated
house cats.
   B.   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
   C.   Any crossbreed as determined by ancestry documentation provided by the
owner, between naturally wild animals and domestic animals, such as the
crossbreed between a wolf and a dog.
   D.   Any member or relative of the rodent family, including squirrels, not
otherwise identified as a domestic animal.
   E.   Any skunk (whether or not descented) or raccoon, and other members of
the weasel family (mustelidae) and raccoon family (procyonidae), but excluding
those members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
   F.   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous member
of the reptile or amphibian family including rattlesnakes, boa constrictors,
pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
   G.   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed in this definition but
which can be reasonably defined by the terms of this definition, including, but
not limited to, bears, deer, and monkeys.
ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY: Any organization(s) authorized by the Bellevue Marshal's
Department (Blaine County) to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any individual authorized by the Bellevue Marshal's
Department (Blaine County) to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and
including any State or local law enforcement officer whose duties, in whole or
in part, include assignments that involve seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER: That animal control facility authorized by the Bellevue
Marshal's Department (Blaine County) as the place for the impounding of animals
and other operations of the animal control agency.
ANIMAL KENNEL OR CATTERY: Any owner or broker who keeps, leases, buys, barters,
or sells animals for gain; provides facilities for breeding, boarding,
transporting, exhibiting, and grooming, including bathing or their cosmetic
care; or provides guard services. Kennels and catteries are required to acquire
an approved Bellevue City business license.
AT LARGE: Off or away from the premises of the owner, and not under the control
of such owner or other person either by leash, cord or chain (not to exceed 8
feet).
ATTACK: Any aggressive physical contact by an animal which a reasonable person
would conclude places a person or domestic animal in reasonable apprehension of
imminent bodily harm.
BARKING: Any audible vocal sound produced by a dog or dogs.
BITE OR BITTEN: The skin has been penetrated and/or bruised by an animal's
teeth.
CAT: Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any of the following:
   A.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, in an aggressive manner, inflicts
severe injury on or kills a human being.
   B.   Any dog previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog which,
after its owner or keeper has been notified of this determination, continues
the behavior described under the definition of "potentially dangerous dog" in
this section.
DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE: When a nonconforming use of a structure,
land, or structure and land in combination is discontinued or abandoned for
more than twelve (12) consecutive months (1 year) except when government action
impedes access to the premises, the structure, land, or structure and land in
combination shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
DOG: Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
EUTHANASIA: The procedure in which an animal is humanely killed by a method
that is painless to such animal, either causing instant painless
unconsciousness and subsequent death or immediate death, performed by a
certified euthanasia technician or licensed veterinarian in accordance with
Idaho Code title 54.
HARBORING: Allowing any animal to remain, or to be lodged, fed, or sheltered,
on the property one owns, occupies or controls for twenty four (24) consecutive
hours, or for one or more hours per day for three (3) consecutive days;
accepting payment for caring for or lodging an animal away from its own
property for any period of time or allowing an animal to remain, be lodged, or
be sheltered on the property one owns for a period of more than two (2) weeks.
HUMANE TRAP: A live animal box enclosure trap designed to capture and hold an
animal without injury.
IMPOUND: To receive into the custody of the animal control shelter or into the
custody of an animal control authority officer.
NAUSEOUS: To be physically affected with nausea. Nausea from extreme disgust,
stomach distress with an urge to vomit.
NONBITE EXPOSURE: Saliva from an animal has come in contact with an open wound
or mucus membrane.
OWN: To keep, harbor, or have control, charge or custody of an animal. Animals
in the custody of a minor or incapacitated person shall be deemed to be owned
by the minor's parent(s) or guardian or head of the household where the minor
or incapacitated person resides.
OWNER: Any person who keeps, harbors, or has charge or control of, or permits
any animal to habitually be or remain on, or be lodged or fed within his/her
house, yard, or premises.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, society, copartnership, limited
partnership, limited liability company, association, or any other legal or
business entity.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: A. Any dog which, when unprovoked, engages in any
behavior that requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily
injury when the person and the dog are off the property of the owner or keeper
of the dog, or any dog, when unprovoked, requires defensive action by any
person utilizing any public property including, but not limited to, public
access, public trails, fishermen's easements, and parks.
   B.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, has killed, inflicted injury, or
otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic animal off the property of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
PROVOKE: To perform an act or omission that an ordinary and reasonable person
would conclude is likely to precipitate the bite, attack, or vocal response
(bark) by an animal.
QUARANTINE: The strict confinement of an animal in a manner which precludes
direct contact with other animals not concurrently in quarantine of persons
other than the owner or caretaker. The quarantine shall be conducted under an
order issued by the animal control agency designating the specific place,
manner and provisions of the quarantine.
RABIES SUSPECT ANIMAL: Any animal which has bitten, scratched, or broken the
skin of a human being; been in contact with or been bitten, scratched or had
its skin broken by a rabid animal; or any animal which shows symptoms
suggestive of rabies.
SANITIZE: To make physically clean and to remove and destroy, to the maximum
degree that is practical, agents injurious to animal or human health.
SECURE ENCLOSURE: An enclosure that shall not allow the egress of the animal in
any manner without human assistance.
SERVICE ANIMAL: Any animal which is trained or being trained to aid humans as
defined by the Americans With Disabilities Association.
SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury that results in broken bones, muscle
tearing, or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic
surgery.
WAIVER: A statement signed by a licensed veterinarian stating the medical
reason that an animal should not be vaccinated for rabies. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-
2009; amd. 2018 Code)
5-3-3: DOGS:
5-3-3-1: DOG FREE AREAS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this section:
    DOG: Any canine, both male and female, whether neutered or spayed.
   POSTED PROPERTY: Any property that has been identified by a sign or signs
stating the restrictions, prohibitions or regulations pertaining to the
property. "Posted property" specifically includes, but not limited to,
O'Donnell Park, Memorial Park, Bellevue River Front Park, (Howard Preserve)
Griffin Park and other areas as designated from time to time by resolution of
the City Council.
   PUBLICLY OWNED PROPERTY: Property owned, leased or otherwise used by tax
supported agencies. (Example: City parks, schools, Post Office, rights-of-way,
Wood River Trail.)
   B.   Dog Free Areas Created; Exceptions: It is the intent of the City
Council to create areas within the City limits that are designated "dog free"
areas. It shall, therefore, be unlawful for any person to permit, allow, or
carry any dog onto publicly owned posted property or any other public place
that has been posted disallowing dogs, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Persons with disabilities utilizing assistance animals.
      2.   Such dog is confined in a motorized vehicle.
      3.   Such dog is confined to perimeter sidewalks or roadways only.
      4.   Police officers and their service animals during the official
performance of their duties.
      5.   Handlers of search and rescue animals during the official
performance of their duties.
   C.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Penalties Imposed: Any person found in violation of this section
shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, court costs as may be imposed and property damage
assessments in accordance with the laws of the State. Any subsequent violations
will result in the doubling of fines.
      2.   Parental Responsibility: In the event that the owner of the dog is a
minor, the parent or guardian of such a minor shall be liable for all injuries,
property damage, fines and impoundment fees caused or incurred by said animal.
(Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-3-2: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Location For Purchasing License: The location for purchasing a license
is as established by Blaine County.
   B.   License Required; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any person to
own, harbor, keep or possess a dog which is older than six (6) months of age
within the City without first procuring a Blaine County license as required by
this chapter, except:
      1.   Dogs whose owners are nonresidents, temporarily within the City for
thirty (30) days or less.
      2.   Dogs brought into the City for the purpose of participating in
shows, exhibits, or competitions.
      3.   Dogs which are specially trained to assist visually impaired,
hearing impaired or otherwise physically disabled persons, if the dog is in
training or is actually serving as a guide or service dog.
      4.   Dogs kept and intended for sale by licensed pet stores.
   C.   Application For License; Fees; Term: The application for a license, the
license fee and the term of the license shall be as established by Blaine
County.
   D.   Use Of Improper Or Imitation License: It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow any dog owned, kept or harbored by him/her to wear a license
tag issued for another dog, or to wear any imitation of the license tag
required by the City for that year, or any tag marked on a plate or collar
similar to that required by the City at any time and calculated to deceive.
(Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-3-3: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited; Confinement Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or the parents or the guardians
of any minor, or the temporary caretaker to allow a dog to run at large. Dogs
not confined on the owner's property shall be restrained, under control, and on
a leash not to exceed eight feet (8'). Even on a leash, dogs shall not be
allowed to roam on private property or posted public property where dogs are
not allowed. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
      2.   Violation of this subsection A is punishable by fines set by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Collar And Tag Required: Every dog, when not restrained on the owner's
property, shall at all times wear a substantial, durable collar or harness to
which shall be securely attached the required license tag.
   C.   Training And Exercise Grounds: The City Council may designate such
areas of public grounds of the City which may be used, subject to the rules and
regulations as may be prescribed, for the training or exercise of dogs. Dogs
within such area so designated need not be controlled by leash, but shall be
under the control of a responsible person and controlled by whistle, voice, or
other effective command.
   D.   Special Events, Working Class Dogs: The City recognizes annual events
and unique circumstances such as the Trailing of the Sheep, seeing eye dogs,
and the Labor Day Parade as times when rules and regulations such as "dogs at
large", as prescribed herein, may not apply. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-3-4: DIRECTING DOG TO HARASS OR ATTACK:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or other person having control or custody of
any dog to direct, encourage, cause, allow, or otherwise aid or assist any dog
to threaten, charge at, bite, harass, menace, or attack any person within the
City. Any such dog may be seized and impounded. This section shall not apply to
an attack by a dog under the control of an on duty law enforcement officer or
to an attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner's property
with criminal intent. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-3-5: USE OF DOG IN ILLEGAL ACTIVITY:
No person shall keep, maintain, control, or retain custody of any dog in
conjunction with or for the purpose, whether in whole or in part, of aiding,
abetting, or conducting any illegal activity or committing any crime within the
City. Any such animal may be seized and impounded. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-4: DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Number Of Dogs And Cats: No owner may keep, harbor or possess on any
premises more than four (4) dogs or cats, or a combination of six (6), not to
exceed four (4) dogs and two (2) cats, unless a valid business license for a
kennel or cattery is obtained. For the purposes of this subsection, the litter
of a female dog or cat may be kept with its mother. Such litter, together with
the mother, shall count as one dog or cat until the litter reaches six (6)
months of age. Animals counted in the litter must be sold, traded or given away
before the litter reaches six (6) months of age so as not to exceed the limits
set out in this subsection.
   B.   Female Dogs And Cats In Heat: Every female dog or female cat in heat
shall be confined in a building or other enclosure in such manner that it
cannot come in contact with another dog or cat off the owner's or caretaker's
property, except for a planned breeding. Any dog or cat not so confined when in
heat, whether or not such animal is licensed, may be seized and impounded.
Violation of this subsection shall be an infraction. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-5: FARM ANIMALS AND BEES:
   A.   Keeping Unlawful; Exceptions:
      1.   Except as allowed by applicable zoning regulations and property
where such animals are being kept prior to the effective date hereof, it shall
be unlawful for any person to stable, keep, pasture or maintain within the City
limits any farm animals.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep roosters or bees or
maintain an apiary in the City limits. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
   B.   Approval Criteria For Certain Zoning Districts: No farm animals or bees
shall be kept in the General Residential District, Transitional District,
Limited Business/Residential District, Business District, Light Industrial
District, and Light Industrial/Mixed Business District unless all of the
following approval criteria are met: (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size is six thousand (6,000)
square feet.
      2.   Location Of Housing Structures:
         a.   Structures to house the animal shall be required to meet the
established minimum building setbacks from the property line as defined in the
City zoning ordinance.
         b.   No farm animals or nondomestic animals shall be in front yards or
side yard areas adjacent to improved public street rights-of- way, excluding
alleys.
         c.   Farm animals may be in side yard areas adjacent to public street
rights-of-way that are visually screened and the containment area meets all
setbacks from the property line.
      3.   Containment Area Fenced: The fenced area does not include perimeter
fencing. The fenced containment area shall be required to meet the established
minimum building setbacks from the property line as defined in the City zoning
ordinance, as if it were a structure.
      4.   Lot Size Per Number Of Animals: Given the following land area,
either on one lot or a combination of adjacent lots within one ownership, the
following agricultural animals may be kept:
         a.   Horses, mules, cattle, llamas, or alpacas: Not to exceed one
animal per six thousand (6,000) square feet of land.
         b.   Chickens, rabbits, doves or pigeons: Four (4) total animals per
six thousand (6,000) square feet of land.
         c.   Sheep, goats, turkeys, ducks, or geese: Not to exceed a ratio of
two (2) total animals per six thousand (6,000) square feet of land (for
example, on 6,000 square feet of land area, the following combinations of 2 = 1
sheep and 1 duck, or 2 sheep only). (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-6: NONDOMESTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Keeping Restricted; Permit: No person, partnership or corporation shall
possess or harbor any nondomestic animal without a valid permit issued by the
animal control agency along with written notification to the City upon permit
application. This prohibition does not apply to zoological parks, properly
licensed transient animal exhibitions, circuses, or licensed veterinarians, or
those possessing valid and current State and/or Federal permits to keep such
animals.
   B.   Keeping Birds Of Prey: Birds of prey may be kept within the City;
provided, that such birds are housed in a humane and appropriate enclosure, and
the owner of such birds is authorized to own such birds by State and Federal
law, and that the keeping of such birds does not constitute a hazard to any
domestic animal or person or violate any other provision of this chapter.
   C.   Requirements For Keeping: Anyone in possession of a nondomestic animal
at the effective date hereof shall meet the following requirements to keep the
animal:
      1.   Permit Required; Conditions:
         a.   Obtain a permit from the animal control agency within ninety (90)
days from acquisition. The permit shall be valid for one year from the date of
issue, will be renewed if the owner is in compliance, and will be revoked at
any time for noncompliance.
         b.   The permit shall include the identification of any individual
nondomestic animal allowed to be kept upon the premises, or the maximum
allowable number of animals of a particular species allowed to be kept on the
premises as required by the animal control agency.
      2.   Confinement: The animal shall be kept in a tightly secured cage or
pen and restrained at all times. The animal must be muzzled or caged when
transported.
      3.   Sterilization: The animal control agency shall be provided with
written proof from a licensed veterinarian that the animal has been spayed or
neutered or written statements from a licensed veterinarian why the animal
cannot or should not be spayed or neutered.
   D.   Application For Permit: No person shall be granted a permit to possess
a nondomestic animal unless an application has been submitted and approved by
the animal control agency. Such application shall include:
      1.   A site plan and drawing that will include property lines, existing
structures and buildings and the location and size of the proposed cage or pen.
The area and materials used must be in compliance with standards set by the
animal control agency, based on the size and nature of the animal.
      2.   Proof that liability insurance is in place, specifically stating
that the animal is covered.
      3.   Approval by the owner of the subject animal or a warrant shall be
required granting the animal control officer freedom to inspect the area as
necessary to assure the health and safety needs are being met.
      4.   Proof of being in compliance with all other City laws and ordinances
concerning the keeping of nondomestic animals.
      5.   Identification of the animal to be kept on the premises, to include
species, age, and physical description of each individual animal, such that the
individual animal can be positively identified. In the case of a U.S.
Department of Fish and Game licensed caregiver for nondomestic animals who
keeps animals for the purpose of rehabilitation and re-release into their
native habitat, it shall be sufficient to provide a list of the species and the
number of animals such caregiver intends to harbor on his premises.
   E.   Denial Of Permit:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection and
subsection D of this section, the animal control agency shall have the
authority to deny any application submitted for the keeping of a nondomestic
animal if the agency deems that keeping such animal would constitute a nuisance
or threat to public safety or would violate any other provision of this chapter
or State or Federal law.
      2.   The animal control agency shall not issue a permit to any person who
has at any time been convicted of animal cruelty, abuse or neglect, except upon
a court order following a show cause hearing wherein the person seeking the
permit has shown that he or she can and will maintain the animal for which a
permit is sought in a safe and humane manner, and in accordance with this
section and State, and Federal law.
   F.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties; Impoundment: Any person found guilty
by the official court system of Blaine County violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and may have to pay a fine, associated court costs, do
community services at the local animal shelter and/or the applicable animals
may be impounded by the animal control officer. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-7: FOUND STRAY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take into his possession any stray
animal, not owned by him/her or not placed into his/her possession by the
person having the lawful custody and control thereof, without notifying the
animal control agency at once. The animal shall be released to the animal
control shelter or animal control officer upon demand without any charge. (Ord.
2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-8: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination Requirements:
      1.   Vaccination Required: The owner or person having charge of any dog,
cat, or ferret over six (6) months of age within the City shall be required to
have the animal vaccinated for rabies with a rabies vaccine by a licensed
veterinarian and to keep such vaccinations current, or shall have a waiver of
this requirement issued by a licensed veterinarian.
      2.   Waiver Of Vaccination: Waiver of the rabies vaccination requirement
shall only be obtained by providing a written statement from a licensed
veterinarian stating the medical reason for the waiver.
      3.   Revaccination: The owner of every dog, cat, or ferret shall have the
animal revaccinated twelve (12) months after the initial vaccination and then
every three (3) years thereafter using a vaccine labeled by the manufacturer
for triennial use, or every year using a vaccine labeled by the manufacturer
for annual use, or shall have a waiver of this requirement issued by a licensed
veterinarian.
      4.   Rabies Certificate: A certificate of rabies vaccination issued by a
licensed veterinarian must be kept by the owner, upon which is stated the date
of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if applicable),
sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, the vaccine producer and
product name, and the veterinarian's identity.
   B.   Report Of Suspected Cases: Any person having care or custody of an
animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which acts in a manner which would
lead to a reasonable suspicion that it may have rabies, shall notify the animal
control agency.
   C.   Keeping Rabid Animals Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for a person,
other than a licensed veterinarian or the animal control agency, to own, keep
or harbor any animal afflicted with rabies or reasonably suspected of having
rabies.
   D.   Report Of Bites: Any person owning or having custody or control of a
species subject to rabies which bites a person shall notify the animal control
agency as soon as possible thereafter.
   E.   Payment Of Fees And Expenses: The owner of any animal which is
quarantined under the provisions of this section shall pay all fees and
expenses related to the quarantine including, but not limited to, the
impoundment, confinement, board, examination, laboratory testing and release of
the animal from quarantine, and any other deposit or fee required by this
chapter.
   F.   Misdemeanor Violation: Violation of any provision of this section shall
be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-9: TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Standard Of Care: All animals shall receive from their owners or
keepers the minimum standard of care set forth in this section. Any person not
treating his pet in such a humane manner will be subject to the penalties
provided in this section. Every owner shall provide the animal with sufficient
good and wholesome food, water, and shelter, the minimum standards of which are
as follows:
      1.   Sufficient Food: All animals except animals under medical diet
restrictions shall be provided, at intervals not to exceed twenty four (24)
hours, a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the animal's specific
species and age and which maintains an adequate level of nutrition to sustain
the good health of the animal.
      2.   Sufficient Water: Access to a supply of clean, fresh water provided
at intervals not to exceed twelve (12) hours.
      3.   Sanitary Keeping Of Animals: Every owner or caregiver of animals
shall keep all animals in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in their own excrement.
      4.   Shelter: Every owner or caregiver shall provide all domestic animals
with a shelter that shall be a structure having walls, a roof, a floor, a door
opening properly shielded from wind and rain and which is a clean, dry shelter
ventilated and protected from excessive heat and cold and of sufficient size
commensurate to the size of the inhabiting animal to permit the animal to move
about freely.
      5.   Tethering: Any owner shall not tether a dog by use of a choke collar
or tether or confine an animal in such manner that it can become entangled so
that it cannot move freely, cannot reach shelter or water, or such that it can
become entangled with another animal. The area where the animal is tethered or
confined must be free of extraneous material that may cause it injury (such as,
but not limited to, glass, sharp metal, nails, etc.). A dog tether must be a
minimum length of three (3) times the length of the dog, measured from the tip
of its nose to the base of its tail. No animal may be kept continuously
tethered in such a manner that the animal is being subjected to torture or
neglect as defined in subsection B of this section.
      6.   Exercise: Any confined animal must periodically be provided with
physical activity appropriate to their species, age and condition sufficient to
maintain health.
      7.   Veterinary Care: The owner or caregiver of a diseased or injured
animal shall promptly provide the animal with appropriate veterinary care and
shall segregate the diseased animals from other animals, if appropriate, to
prevent the transmittal of disease.
   B.   Torture Or Neglect: It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or
permit any animal to be tortured, neglected, tormented, overloaded, overworked,
cruelly beaten or mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever having charge or
custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts or allows the
infliction of unnecessary suffering or pain upon the same shall be guilty of
violating this section.
   C.   Animal Fights: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, instigate,
or permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, or other such combat between
animals or between animals and humans. Anyone who permits such conduct on
premises under his control, and any person present at such an exhibition shall
also be deemed a violator of this subsection and subject to punishment thereof.
   D.   Fighting Equipment: It shall be unlawful to posses cockspurs, slashers,
gaffs, or other tools, equipment, devices or training facilities for the
purpose of training or engaging an animal in combat with another animal.
   E.   Leg Hold Traps: It shall be illegal to set out any leg hold traps in
the City unless approved by the animal control agency.
   F.   Animal Exhibitions, Circuses: It shall be unlawful for an animal
exhibition or circus to perform acts or exhibits in which animals are induced
or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical,
or manual devices in a manner which will cause, or is likely to cause, physical
injury or suffering. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
   G.   Confinement Without Food And Water; Intervention: Anyone observing a
domestic animal confined without necessary food or water as specified in
subsection A of this section, should contact the animal control agency
immediately. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009; amd. 2018 Code)
   H.   Unsafe Containment Of Animal In Motor Vehicle: No person shall permit
an animal to be within or on a motor vehicle at any location under such
conditions that may endanger the health, safety or well being of the animal,
including, but not limited to, dangerous temperatures or lack of air, food,
water or proper care. In order to protect the health and safety of such animal,
an animal control officer/police officer who has probable cause to believe that
this subsection is being violated shall have the authority to enter such motor
vehicle by any reasonable means under the circumstances after making a
reasonable effort to locate the owner.
   I.   Abandonment: It shall be unlawful to abandon an animal intentionally,
knowingly, or recklessly, or, with criminal negligence, leave an animal at a
location without providing for the animal's continued care unless allowed by
State law. It is no defense to abandonment if a person abandons an animal at or
near an animal shelter, veterinary clinic or other place of shelter if
reasonable arrangements for the care of the animal were not made by the person
abandoning the animal.
   J.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties; Impoundment: Any person found guilty
by the official court system of Blaine County violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and may have to pay a fine, associated court costs, do
community services at the local animal shelter and/or the applicable animals
may be impounded by the animal control officer. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-10: EXPOSING POISONOUS SUBSTANCES TO ANIMALS OR PERSONS:
   A.   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, or cause to be
exposed such substance, whether mixed with food or not, so that the poisonous
substance may be taken internally by any animal, child or person; provided,
that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his or her property
common rodenticide (rat poison) mixed only with vegetable substances.
   B.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the killing by poison
of any domestic animal in a lawful and humane manner by its owner or a duly
authorized agent of such owner, or by a person acting pursuant to instructions
from a duly constituted public authority. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-11: NOISY ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibition; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any owner, the parents
or guardians of any minor, or the temporary caretaker to allow their animals to
make any unprovoked noise and become a public nuisance. Any violation of this
section is punishable as defined in subsection 1-4-1A of this Code.
   B.   Impoundment: Any animal in violation of this section may be seized and
impounded if such disturbance reoccurs after the person in control of the
premises has received three (3) convictions within a period of six (6) months
from the animal control agency. The owner may choose to have his or her animal
(s) surgically debarked as an alternative to forced surrender. It is not a
defense that prior warnings or citations involved different animals.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to such unprovoked noises made
by farm animals/livestock, whether from commercial or noncommercial activities
on land which is properly zoned to allow keeping of livestock, and such sounds
made in facilities licensed under and in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense under this
section that the animal was provoked to make such noise. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-
2009)
5-3-12: EXCREMENT REMOVAL REQUIRED:
The owner of any animal or person having the custody or control of any animal
shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces of the animal and disposing of
such feces in a sanitary manner, whether on the property of others or on public
property, before the owner leaves the aforementioned property. Animal owners
shall be responsible for maintaining sanitary conditions on their own property.
Any violation of this section is an infraction. Any animals kept contrary to
this section are subject to impoundment. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-13: FOUL OR OFFENSIVE ANIMALS, HOUSING OR PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain any animal or
fowl, or any pen, kennel, yard, enclosure or building in which animals are
kept, in such a manner as to be nauseous, foul or offensive to an ordinary and
reasonable person. Any violation of this section is an infraction. Any animals
kept contrary to this section are subject to impoundment at the expense of the
owner. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-14: ANIMALS PRESENTING IMMEDIATE DANGER:
If, in the reasonable belief of any person or animal control agency/officer, an
animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, or
the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the animal is in the
process of attacking any person, the person or the animal control agency/
officer may destroy the animal by whatever means necessary to prevent further
injury to the victim. Otherwise, the officer or animal control agency may
apprehend the animal and impound it. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-15: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Keeping Or Allowing A Diseased Animal: No person shall keep or allow to
be kept on his or her premises, or on premises occupied by such person, nor
permit to run at large in the City, any animal which is diseased so as to be a
danger to the health and safety of the City, even if the animal is properly
licensed under this chapter.
   B.   Confinement: Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public may be apprehended
and quarantined in the animal control shelter or other approved location by the
animal control agency. The animal control agency shall have a qualified,
licensed veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found to be diseased
in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety of the City, the
officer shall cause such animal to be humanely killed and shall properly
dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed under this
subsection shall be liable for all costs of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examinations.
   C.   Release: If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
within the meaning of this section, the animal shall be released to the owner
or keeper free of charge.
   D.   Destruction: Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any
animal that is determined by a qualified, licensed veterinarian to carry a
disease that threatens the health of human beings or other animals may be
immediately destroyed where such action is necessary to protect the health of
human beings or animals. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-16: DEPOSITING DEAD ANIMALS WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or place upon any premises,
public or private, the carcass of any dead animal or to allow said carcass to
be or remain unburied within the City limits for more than twenty four (24)
hours during the workweek or for more than forty eight (48) hours during the
weekend. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-17: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Appointment:
      1.   Animal Control Agency/Officer: Blaine County is authorized to
appoint the animal control agency/officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Animal Review Committee: The City may appoint an animal review
committee. The animal review committee shall serve as a guidance team to help
animal owners and the appointed control agency (Blaine County) comply with the
adopted City ordinances.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The animal control agency is authorized to enforce the provisions of
this chapter and is designated as a peace officer for such purpose.
      2.   The animal control agency shall be and is hereby authorized to make
all necessary seizures and keep and remove any animal in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   The animal control agency shall issue a notice of ordinance
violation for a violation of any of the provisions herein. The notice of
ordinance violation may be signed by any person in whose presence a violation
occurred and be witnessed by the animal control officer whose name shall be
endorsed on the notice of ordinance violation.
   C.   Obstructing Animal Control Officer: No person shall in any manner
molest, hinder, or interfere with any person authorized by the City Council to
discharge his or her duties under this subsection. A person commits the offense
of obstructing an animal control officer if he or she:
      1.   Removes any animal from the animal control shelter or custody of an
animal control officer without the authority of the animal control agency.
      2.   Removes any animal from the animal control agency without paying all
lawful charges against the animal, unless approved by said agency.
      3.   Intentionally uses or threatens to use force to obstruct a person
that he or she knows or should reasonably know is an animal control officer and
such officer is acting in the discharge of his or her official powers or
duties.
      4.   Intentionally commits any act that he or she knows or should
reasonably know will interfere with or obstruct a person known to be or who
should reasonably be known to be an animal control officer and such officer is
acting in the discharge of his or her official powers or duties.
      5.   Any person requested to identify himself to an animal control
officer pursuant to an investigation under this chapter has a duty to identify
himself, give his current address and, when appropriate, to sign an
acknowledgement of receipt of a citation for an infraction or a misdemeanor.
      6.   It is unlawful to make a false or misleading statement or
representation regarding ownership or right to custody or control of an animal,
or regarding the ownership of an animal redeemed from, surrendered to, or
detained by the animal control agency, shelter or officer. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-
2009)
5-3-18: ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER:
The City Council shall designate an official animal control shelter to which
animals found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for impoundment, safe
treatment, and, if necessary, for destruction. The animal control officer shall
only conduct search and seizure actions pursuant to the U.S. Constitution
regarding private property except in regard to imminent danger to the health
and safety of the community. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-19: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   The animal control agency may impound any animal found running at large
which animal shall be subject to redemption in the manner provided by
ordinance. It shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to
any animal running at large unless otherwise provided by law.
   B.   After the owner has been found guilty of a violation or violations of
any provision of this chapter, the animal control officer may impound such an
animal. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-20: HABITUAL VIOLATOR:
   A.   Order Of Abatement: In addition to any legal remedy available under the
provisions of this chapter, the animal control agency will notify and direct,
in writing, the owner of any animal which is guilty of three (3) convictions of
a violation of this chapter in any twelve (12) month period to abate and remove
said animal from the City within ten (10) business days (Monday through Friday)
from the date of said notice; or in the alternative, to abate and transfer
ownership and possession of the animal to another person not living at the same
place of residence. Such notice to abate shall state the method of appealing
the order; except, that any appeal must be filed within five (5) calendar days
following service of the notice.
   B.   Appeal: The owner of any animal that has been served with an order of
abatement, pursuant to subsection A of this section, may appeal such order by
requesting a hearing before the District Court by submitting a written request
to the Clerk of the Court. Any appeal must be filed within five (5) calendar
days following service of the notice.
   C.   Failure To Abate; Impoundment Of Animal: If the owner of such animal is
found in violation of the abatement notice after five (5) calendar days have
elapsed from the date of notice and no timely appeal is filed, the animal shall
be removed and impounded by the animal control agency, subject to all impound
procedures; provided, however, that the animal may not be returned to the same
residence or property on which it resided or from which it was impounded. (Ord.
2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3-21: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The City, the City's designee, the animal control agency, the animal control
shelter, and the animal control officer shall be immune from any and all civil
liability for any actions taken pursuant to this chapter, or for any legal
failure to take actions taken pursuant to this chapter, or for any failure to
take action to enforce the provisions of this chapter. This chapter has been
enacted for the welfare of the public as a whole. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
ARTICLE A. KENNELS AND CATTERIES
SECTION:
5-3A-1: License Required; Exclusions
5-3A-2: Application For License
5-3A-3: Term Of License; Fee
5-3A-4: Inspection Of Premises
5-3A-5: Show Cause Hearing To Obtain License
5-3A-6: Unsanitary, Nuisance Conditions; Abatement
5-3A-7: Denial Or Revocation Of License
5-3A-8: Violations; Exemptions; Citation; Penalty
5-3A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCLUSIONS:
All kennels and catteries must be licensed. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a kennel or cattery within the incorporated area of the City without
first having obtained a City business license for the kennel or cattery.
"Animal kennel or cattery" shall not be construed to mean an animal clinic,
animal shelter, impound facility, animal hospital or veterinary office where
boarding is limited to short term care incidental to the hospital or shelter
use. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications shall be made to the City Planning and Zoning Director. The
application shall state the name and address of the owner, the location of the
kennel or cattery, the breed(s), and/or a description of the dog or cat and
number of dogs or cats to be kept, and a general site plan. Any application for
a kennel or cattery business license must include:
   A.   Review and approval from the animal control agency including a
statement limiting the number of dogs or cats that may be kept at the facility
and review and approval from all other applicable City departments.
   B.   Licensing for each animal.
   C.   All application fees shall be paid upon submittal of the application
and on annual renewals. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3A-3: TERM OF LICENSE; FEE:
A business/kennel/cattery license shall be valid for a period of one year, and
the annual fee for a business license shall be as set by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3A-4: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The animal control agency shall inspect all prospective businesses for kennels
or catteries prior to the granting of a business/kennel/cattery license. (Ord.
2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3A-5: SHOW CAUSE HEARING TO OBTAIN LICENSE:
The City shall not issue a kennel or cattery license to any person who has, at
any time, been convicted of animal cruelty, abuse or neglect, except upon a
court order following a show cause hearing wherein the person seeking the
kennel or cattery license has shown that he or she can and will run, keep and
operate the kennel or cattery in a safe and humane fashion and in accordance
with State laws and with this article. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3A-6: UNSANITARY, NUISANCE CONDITIONS; ABATEMENT:
Any kennel or cattery which is found by the animal control agency to be
unsanitary or a menace to an animal or the public health, safety or welfare is
declared to be a public nuisance. The animal control agency is authorized and
empowered to take such action as is necessary to abate the nuisance. In the
event that immediate action is necessary to preserve or protect an animal or
the public health, safety or welfare, the animal control agency is authorized
and empowered to summarily abate such nuisance by any reasonable means,
including, but not limited to, impoundment of the animal(s) and/or immediate
closure of the kennel or cattery for such time until the nuisance is abated.
(Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3A-7: DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds For Denial Or Revocation: A business/kennel/cattery license may
be revoked or application for a kennel or cattery license denied when any of
the following conditions are found to exist:
      1.   Dogs from any such kennel that are impounded or cited for running at
large or other violations of this chapter three (3) times in any six (6) month
period.
      2.   Failure to maintain a list of animals kept at the kennel or cattery.
The list shall be kept on site where the animals are located.
      3.   Failure to allow access by any authorized animal control agency to
inspect the kennel or cattery facility unless the reason for access denial is
found justifiable by the City. Example: The local area is experiencing high
numbers of Parvo, a very contagious, infectious disease and the subject kennel
or cattery facility has recently had deliveries of puppies and kittens. To
protect the newborn puppies or kittens, the owner/caretaker of the cattery/
kennel has chosen to not allow the inspector to enter until he or she has
sanitized his/her hands and has dressed in sterilized footwear and clothing.
      4.   Failure to maintain the kennel or cattery in a clean and sanitary
manner.
      5.   Failure to provide adequate shelter and protection from the weather.
      6.   Failure to maintain adequate or approved ventilation.
      7.   Overcrowding of animals.
      8.   Housing together of animals which are temperamentally unsuited, or
allowing such animals to approach as near to each other as to cause animals to
be abused or tormented.
      9.   Excessive or loud noise.
      10.   Failure to adequately treat or have treated any diseased or injured
animal or to segregate such diseased animal so as to prevent the spread of
disease to other animals.
   B.   Time Limit For Correction Of Defect Or Contesting Decision: Upon notice
of revocation, a kennel or cattery license holder shall have thirty (30) days
to correct any defect and to petition the City Council to contest such
revocation.
   C.   Revocation Or Review Of Petition: Thirty (30) days after notice of
revocation, if no petition seeking review of revocation has been filed with the
City Council, the kennel or cattery license shall be deemed revoked. If a
petition is filed, a review shall be held in substantial compliance with the
Administrative Procedures Act. If the petition is denied, the kennel or cattery
license shall be deemed revoked.
   D.   Citation For Violation: Any person whose kennel or cattery business
license is revoked under subsection A of this section shall also be subject to
citation for violation of this section and shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of section
5-3A-8 of this article. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3A-8: VIOLATIONS; EXEMPTIONS; CITATION; PENALTY:
Any person who owns, keeps or operates, prior to the Council's final action on
and publication of this chapter, a kennel or cattery and does not have a
current business license or was not required, based on prior ordinances, to
have a business license for a kennel or cattery shall not be required to obtain
or maintain a business license. Any person who creates or expands a kennel or
cattery after the effective date hereof and who fails to obtain and maintain a
current kennel or cattery business license thereafter shall be subject to
citation for violation of this article and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009; amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE B. DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Potentially Dangerous Dogs
5-3B-1-1: Designation As Potentially Dangerous Dog
5-3B-1-2: Restrictions And Conditions For Keeping Potentially Dangerous Dog
5-3B-1-3: Permit Requirements
5-3B-1-4: Confinement Required
5-3B-2: Dangerous Dogs
5-3B-2-1: Designation As Dangerous Dog
5-3B-2-2: Restrictions And Conditions For Keeping Dangerous Dog
5-3B-2-3: Permit Requirements
5-3B-3: Impoundment And Disposition
5-3B-4: Failure To Comply With Conditions
5-3B-1: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS:
5-3B-1-1: DESIGNATION AS POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Findings: The animal control officer may find and declare a dog
potentially dangerous if he has probable cause to believe the animal falls
within the definition of "potentially dangerous dog" set forth in section
5-3-2 of this chapter. The findings must be based upon:
      1.   The written complaint of a citizen who is willing to testify that
the animal has acted in a manner which causes such animal to fall within the
definition of a potentially dangerous dog; or
      2.   One or more dog attack or bite reports filed with the animal control
agency as required by this section
5-3B-1; or
      3.   Actions of the dog witnessed by any animal control officer; or
      4.   Other substantial evidence admissible in court under the Idaho Rules
of Evidence. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
   B.   Serving Notice Of Declaration: The declaration of a potentially
dangerous dog shall be in writing and shall be served on the owner and may be
served on other than the owner in one of the following methods: (Ord. 2010-01,
11-5-2009; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Certified mail to the owner's or keeper's last known address, if
known; or
      2.   Personally served to the owner or to another person eighteen (18)
years of age or older and mentally competent residing at the owner's residence;
or
      3.   Posting a notice at the owner's or keeper's last known address.
   C.   Contents Of Declaration: The declaration shall state at least:
      1.   A description of the animal.
      2.   The name and address of the owner or keeper of the animal, if known.
      3.   The whereabouts of the animal, if known, if such animal is not in
the custody of the owner.
      4.   A summary of the facts upon which the declaration of a potentially
dangerous dog is based.
      5.   The availability of a hearing in case the person objects to the
declaration, in accordance with subsection E of this section, if a request is
made within five (5) calendar days.
      6.   The restrictions placed on the animal as a result of the declaration
of a potentially dangerous dog and the date upon which the owner shall be
required to have complied with such restrictions.
      7.   The penalties for violation of the restrictions, including the
possibility of destruction of the animal and imprisonment or fining of the
owner.
   D.   Exempt Actions Of Dog: No dog may be declared potentially dangerous:
      1.   If the dog was protecting or defending a person from an attack or
assault within the immediate vicinity of the dog.
      2.   If, at the time, the person was committing a crime or offense upon
the property of the owner or custodian of the dog.
      3.   If the person was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog, or in the past had teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog.
      4.   If the dog was attacked or menaced by a domestic animal, or a
domestic animal was on the property of the owner or custodian of the dog.
      5.   If the dog was responding to pain or injury.
      6.   Neither growling nor barking, nor both, shall alone constitute
grounds upon which to find a dog to be potentially dangerous.
   E.   Objection By Owner; Hearing:
      1.   If the owner of the animal wishes to object to the declaration of a
potentially dangerous dog, the owner may, within five (5) days of receipt of
the declaration, request a hearing before the District Court by submitting a
written request to the Clerk of the Court.
      2.   If the court finds that there is insufficient evidence to support
the declaration, it shall be rescinded and the restrictions imposed thereby
annulled, and the animal, if impounded, shall be released into the owner's
custody without payment of the impound fees.
      3.   If the court finds sufficient evidence to support the declaration,
it may impose court costs on the appellant, and may impose additional
restrictions or penalties on the animal or owner.
      4.   In the event the court finds that the animal is not a potentially
dangerous dog, no court costs shall be assessed against the City or the animal
control agency or officer.
      5.   Following service of a declaration of a potentially dangerous dog,
the animal control agency may, if circumstances require, impound the animal at
the owner's expense, pursuant to the provisions of this section
5-3B-1, until the court orders either its redemption or destruction. (Ord.
2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3B-1-2: RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG:
The animal control agency is hereby authorized and empowered to impound and/or
abate any potentially dangerous dog by imposition upon the owner of specific
reasonable restrictions and conditions for the maintenance of the dog. The
restrictions and conditions may include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Obtaining and maintaining liability insurance and furnishing a
certificate or proof of insurance by which the animal control agency shall be
notified at least ten (10) days prior to cancellation or nonrenewal.
   B.   Requirements as to size, construction and design of a secure enclosure.
   C.   Requirements as to posting of the premises on which the dog is kept
with clearly visible signs which state "beware of dog", which may also include
the requirement to post signs with a warning symbol that informs children of
the presence of a dangerous dog, either of which shall be visible from the
closest roadway.
   D.   Re-location of the dog's residence.
   E.   Requirements as to type and method of restraints and/or muzzling of the
dog.
   F.   Requirement of microchip identification or other permanent marking of
the dog for the purpose of identification.
   G.   Requirement of photographic identification of the dog for the purpose
of identification.
   H.   A requirement to obtain a potentially dangerous dog permit in addition
to a license as required by section
5-3-3-2 of this chapter.
   I.   A requirement to sterilize the dog.
   J.   Requirements to allow inspection of the dog and its enclosure by the
animal control agency and to produce, upon demand, proof of compliance with all
requirements of this article. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3B-1-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: All owners of potentially dangerous dogs shall
purchase a potentially dangerous dog permit from the animal control agency
within five (5) calendar days of receipt of the declaration of a potentially
dangerous dog (if no proper appeal has been filed).
   B.   Permit Fees: The permit fee and renewal fee for each potentially
dangerous dog registered under this section
5-3B-1 shall be set by resolution of the City Council and shall be due no later
than January 31 of each year.
   C.   Failure To Obtain Permit: The owner of a potentially dangerous dog who
fails to obtain a permit or renewal for such dog as described in this section
5-3B-1, in addition to criminal sanctions, shall be assessed a civil penalty,
and the animal shall be immediately confiscated by the animal control agency.
No such civil penalty shall be assessed until five (5) days have elapsed from
the date the owner is notified by the animal control agency that the permit or
renewal for the potentially dangerous dog is required, or until any appeal
brought under subsection 5-3B-1-1E of this section
5-3B-1 has been complete, whichever is later. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3B-1-4: CONFINEMENT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for an owner of a potentially dangerous dog to permit the dog to
be at large at any time. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3B-2: DANGEROUS DOGS:
5-3B-2-1: DESIGNATION AS DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Findings: The animal control officer may find and declare a dog
dangerous if he has probable cause to believe the animal falls within the
definition of "dangerous dog", set forth in section
5-3-2 of this chapter. The finding must be based upon:
      1.   The written complaint of a citizen who is willing to testify that
the animal has acted in a manner which causes it to fall within the definition
of "dangerous dog"; or
      2.   One or more dog bite reports filed with the animal control agency as
required by this section
5-3B-2; or
      3.   Actions of the dog witnessed by any animal control officer; or
      4.   Other substantial evidence admissible in court under the Idaho Rules
of Evidence.
   B.   Serving Notice Of Declaration: The declaration of a dangerous dog shall
be in writing and shall be served on the owner in one of the following methods:
      1.   Certified mail to the owner's or keeper's last known address, if
known; or
      2.   Personally served to the owner or to another person eighteen (18)
years of age and mentally competent residing at the owner's residence; or
      3.   Posting a notice at the owner's or keeper's last known address.
   C.   Contents Of Declaration: The declaration shall state at least:
      1.   A description of the animal.
      2.   The name and address of the owners of the animal, if known.
      3.   The whereabouts of the animal, if known, if it is not in the custody
of the owner.
      4.   A summary of the facts upon which the declaration of a dangerous dog
is based.
      5.   The availability of a hearing in case the person objects to the
declaration, if a request is made within five (5) calendar days in accordance
with subsection E of this section.
      6.   An order for euthanasia of the dog within five (5) days unless an
appeal is filed in the interim or, if the dog is not required by the animal
control agency to be destroyed, the restrictions placed on the animal as a
result of the declaration of a dangerous dog and the date upon which the owner
shall be required to have complied with such restrictions.
      7.   The penalties for violation of the restrictions, including the
possibility of destruction of the animal and imprisonment or fining of the
owner.
   D.   Exempt Actions Of Dog: No dog may be declared dangerous:
      1.   If the dog was protecting or defending a person from an attack or
assault within the immediate vicinity of the dog.
      2.   If, at the time, the person was committing a crime or offense upon
the property of the owner or custodian of the dog.
      3.   If the person was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
dog, or in the past had teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog.
      4.   If the dog was attacked or menaced by a domestic animal, or a
domestic animal was on the property of the owner or custodian of the dog.
      5.   If the injury was delivered as a result of human intervention
between two (2) or more animals engaged in a fight or altercation.
   E.   Objection By Owner; Hearing: If the owner of the animal wishes to
object to the declaration of dangerous dog:
      1.   The owner may, within five (5) days of receipt of the declaration,
request a hearing before the District Court by submitting a written request to
the Clerk of the Court.
      2.   If the court finds that there is insufficient evidence to support
the declaration, it shall be rescinded and the restrictions imposed thereby
annulled, and the animal, if impounded, shall be redeemed into the owner's
custody without payment of impound fees.
      3.   If the court finds sufficient evidence to support the declaration,
the court may impose court costs on the appellant, and may impose additional
restrictions or penalties on the animal or owner.
      4.   In the event the court finds that the animal is not a dangerous dog,
no court costs shall be assessed against the City or the animal control agency
or officer.
      5.   Following service of a declaration of a dangerous dog, the animal
control agency may, if circumstances require, impound the animal at the owner's
expense, pursuant to the provisions of this article, until the court orders
either its redemption or euthanasia. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3B-2-2: RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING DANGEROUS DOG:
The animal control agency is authorized and empowered to abate any dog declared
dangerous by any means necessary to ensure the health, safety and welfare of
the public, including euthanasia of the dog or by the imposition upon the owner
and/or custodian of specific reasonable restrictions and conditions for the
maintenance of the dog. If the dog is not ordered to be destroyed, the
restrictions and conditions may include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Obtaining and maintaining liability insurance and furnishing a
certificate or proof of insurance by which the animal control agency shall be
notified at least ten (10) days prior to cancellation or nonrenewal.
   B.   Requirements as to size, construction and design of a secure enclosure.
   C.   Requirements as to posting of the premises on which the dog is kept
with clearly visible signs which state "beware of dog", which may also include
the requirement to post signs with a warning symbol that informs children of
the presence of a dangerous dog, either of which shall be visible from the
closest roadway.
   D.   Re-location of the dog's residence.
   E.   Requirements as to type and method of restraints and/or muzzling of the
dog.
   F.   Requirement of microchip identification or other permanent marking of
the dog for the purpose of identification.
   G.   Requirement of photographic identification of the dog for the purpose
of identification.
   H.   A requirement to obtain a dangerous dog permit in addition to the
license as required by section
5-3-3-2 of this chapter.
   I.   A requirement to sterilize the dog.
   J.   Requirements to allow inspection of the dog and its enclosure by the
animal control agency, and to produce, upon demand, proof of compliance with
all requirements of this article. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3B-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: All owners of dangerous dogs shall purchase a
dangerous dog permit from the animal control agency within five (5) days of
receipt of the declaration of a dangerous dog (if no proper appeal has been
filed).
   B.   Permit Fees: The permit and renewal fees for each dangerous dog
registered under this section
5-3B-2 shall be set by resolution of the City Council and shall be due no later
than January 31 of each year. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
5-3B-3: IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION:
Any potentially dangerous or dangerous dog for which a permit or renewal has
not been obtained by its owner pursuant to this article is subject to being
impounded by the animal control agency. Any potentially dangerous dog impounded
due to the failure of the owner of such dog to obtain the required permit and
which remains impounded for a period of at least seven (7) days due to the
failure of the owner to obtain such permit may be destroyed by euthanasia by
the animal control agency, and the owner shall be assessed an additional civil
penalty. Fees for impounding and keeping each potentially dangerous dog shall
be assessed against the owner of each potentially dangerous dog. (Ord. 2010-01,
11-5-2009)
5-3B-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CONDITIONS:
It is unlawful for the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to
fail to abide by the conditions for ownership as described in sections
5-3B-1-2 and
5-3B-2-2 of this article. Any dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by the animal control agency if found to be in
violation of this section. Any owner who violates this section shall, in
addition to criminal sanctions, be assessed a civil penalty for each violation
hereof. In addition, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for a violation
of this section. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-5-2009)
CHAPTER 4
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Injury To, Interfering With City Property
5-4-2: Discharging Firearms Or Toy Guns Or Using Archery Bows
5-4-3: Disturbing The Peace
5-4-1: INJURY TO, INTERFERING WITH CITY PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for anyone to injure, deface, or
interfere with any property belonging to the City without proper authority from
the City Council. Such interference shall include the opening of any water
hydrant of the City so as to permit water to run through such hydrant. Any
person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1983 Code §§ 3.401, 3.402)
5-4-2: DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR TOY GUNS OR USING ARCHERY BOWS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to discharge within the City any
firearm or air gun, BB gun, or any toy gun projecting lead or any missiles,
except in a regularly established shooting gallery; provided, that this
subsection shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from
discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty; nor any citizen from
discharging a firearm when lawfully defending personal property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to shoot any arrow or other
projectile using a compound bow, cross bow or any other bow or archery device
commonly used in hunting or archery competition within the City. (Ord. 2005-09,
4-14-2005)
   C.   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-09, 4-14-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
5-4-3: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
Every person who deliberately and wilfully disturbs the peace and quiet of any
neighborhood, family, or person by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous or
offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to
fight or fighting, or fires any gun or pistol or uses any profane or indecent
language within the presence or hearing of children, in a loud and boisterous
manner is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1983 Code § 3.201; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Curfew Regulations
5-5-2: Truancy And Runaways
5-5-3: Social Hosting
5-5-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions; Exemptions: It shall be unlawful for any
minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to be in any public grounds within
the City between the hours of eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following day unless such minor is accompanied by a
parent or guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of said
minor, or said minor has written permission from such parent, guardian, or
other person having the care and custody of the minor to be in such a public
place or be on the streets, alleys, or public grounds within the City. However,
the provisions of this subsection do not apply to a minor who is lawfully
married, or to a member of the armed forces of the United States on active
duty, or to a minor in the act of going to or returning home from lawful
employment. Each violation of the provision of this subsection shall constitute
a separate offense.
   B.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   Minors: Any minor violating the provisions of subsection A of this
section may be detained and treated in accordance with the provisions of the
Juvenile Corrections Act, title 20, chapter 5 of the Idaho Code.
      2.   Parents, Guardians, Other Adults:
         a.   Any parent or parents, guardian or other person having the care
and custody of any minor or minors, as defined herein, who permits or abets
said minor or minors to violate subsection A of this section shall be deemed
guilty of contributing to the delinquency of said minor or minors. (Ord. 229,
6-22-1989)
         b.   Any adult violating the provisions of subsection B2a of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 229, 6-22-1989; amd. 2018 Code)
5-5-2: TRUANCY AND RUNAWAYS:
   A.   Purposes: The purposes of this section are to:
      1.   Promote the general welfare and protect the general public within
the City;
      2.   Promote the safety and well being of the City's young;
      3.   Encourage regular school attendance by the City's youth through
enactment of truancy provisions;
      4.   Enact a provision for the status offense of being a truant;
      5.   Enact provisions for the status offenses of being a runaway and
beyond the control of a parent; and
      6.   Promote uniform regulations throughout Blaine County and its
municipalities governing truancy and runaways.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    JUVENILE CORRECTIONS ACT: Idaho Code title 20, chapter 5, as now existing
and as may hereafter be amended.
   PARENT: Any person lawfully charged with the care or custody of the minor.
The term includes, but is not limited to, a natural or adoptive parent, a
lawful guardian, or a foster parent.
   C.   Truancy:
      1.   Violations: Any minor residing within the corporate limits of the
City who has attained the age of seven (7) years at the time of the
commencement of school in the school district and is less than sixteen (16)
years of age, and who also is truant from school or class under the school
district regulations without the consent of the minor's parents or school
officials is guilty of a status offense.
      2.   Exceptions: Any exceptions to school attendance and instruction
requirements as codified by school district regulations, by Idaho Code title
33, chapter 2, or by other provisions of the Idaho Code are hereby recognized
and given full force and effect.
      3.   Penalties: A violation of this subsection C shall be a status
offense and subject the minor to the penalties and other sentencing provisions
set forth in the Juvenile Corrections Act.
      4.   Enforcement: Enforcement of this subsection C shall be by petition
filed by any authorized representative of the board of trustees of the school
district or by the prosecuting attorney as provided in Idaho Code section 20-
510.
   D.   Runaways:
      1.   Violation: Any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years living or
found within the City who runs away from or is beyond the supervision or
control of the minor's parents is guilty of a status offense.
      2.   Penalties: A violation of this subsection D shall subject the minor
to the penalties and other sentencing provisions set forth in the Juvenile
Corrections Act. (Ord. 2002-02, 2-14-2002)
5-5-3: SOCIAL HOSTING:
   A.   Definitions: Except as otherwise defined herein, for purposes of this
section, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
subsection:
    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing alcohol, including liquor,
spirits, beer and/or wine.
   GATHERING: An assembly of five (5) or more persons for a social occasion or
activity.
   HOST: The owner(s) or person(s) in charge of or in control of the premises,
or the person(s) authorizing the use of the premises, or the person(s)
organizing or hosting a gathering at the premises.
   KNOWINGLY: A knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act or omission
within the provisions of this section. The term does not require any knowledge
of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      1.   As a natural or adoptive parent.
      2.   As a legal guardian.
      3.   As a person who stands in loco parentis.
      4.   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of court.
   PREMISES: Any private or public property, structure, or enclosure,
including, but not limited to, a home, apartment, condominium, dwelling unit,
meeting room, hotel room and/or hall, and/or the yard and/or curtilage thereof,
whether such property is owned, rented, leased or otherwise occupied.
   B.   Prohibition: Except as otherwise permitted by law, it shall be unlawful
for any host to knowingly permit a gathering on any premises where a minor is
in possession of or consumes an alcoholic beverage. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-20-2015)
   C.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties: A violation of this section shall be
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Load Limits
6-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The provisions of Idaho Code title 49, chapters 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 are
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. The City Clerk shall make
copies of said provisions, as required by law, and make the same available for
public use and examination in the Office of said City Clerk. (Ord. 2008-08, 12-
13-2007)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Reasonable And Prudent Speed; General Speed Limit: No person shall
drive a motor vehicle within the City at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential
hazards then existing, nor at a speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour,
except where lesser or greater speeds are posted.
   B.   Speed Limits On Specific Streets:
      1.   Main Street: The following maximum speed limits are hereby
established for Main Street (also designated as Idaho State Highway 75).
Twenty five (25) miles per hour within the area so designated on exhibit A on
file in the City Clerk's Office, which exhibit is incorporated herein by
reference.
Thirty five (35) miles per hour within the area so designated on exhibit A on
file in the City Clerk's Office, which exhibit is incorporated herein by
reference.
      2.   Gannett Road: The following speed limit is hereby established for
Gannett Road within the City:
No greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      3.   Around Parks And The Public School: The maximum speed limit for the
following streets within the City, which are around City parks and the public
school, shall be no greater than fifteen (15) miles per hour:
         a.   Memorial Park:
Cedar Street between 3rd and 4th Streets.
Elm Street between 3rd and 4th Streets.
3rd Street between Cedar Street and Elm Street.
4th Street between Cedar Street and Elm Street.
         b.   Bellevue Elementary School:
Birch Street between 5th and 6th Streets.
Cedar Street between 5th and 6th Streets.
5th Street between Cedar Street and Birch Street.
6th Street between Cedar Street and Birch Street.
         c.   O'Donnel Park:
Cedar Street between 8th Street and Slaughterhouse Road.
Elm Street between 8th Street and Ridgeview Drive.
Slaughterhouse Road from 8th Street to the east City limits.
8th Street between Cedar Street and Elm Street.
      4.   Signs Posted: The speed limits set out in this subsection B shall be
posted in accordance with Idaho law.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person exceeding the posted speed limit shall
be guilty of an "infraction" as defined in Idaho Code section 18-111, including
subsequent amendments thereto and recodification thereof, and shall be subject
to the penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2008-08, 12-13-2007)
6-1-3: LOAD LIMITS:
   A.   Definitions: The definitions set forth in Idaho Code title 49, chapter
1 are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein. In addition, the
following words and terms shall have the definitions set out in this
subsection:
    GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT (GVW): The weight of the vehicle, including any
trailer or combination of vehicles attached thereto, without load, plus the
weight of the load.
   RESIDENTIAL STREET: Any street within the General Residential Zoning
District or the Transitional Zoning District within the City.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 2004-08, 6-29-2004; amd.
2018 Code) DEFEND!
   B.   Load Limits Established; Exemptions: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate or be in control of any vehicle (including any trailer pulled
by such vehicle) with a gross vehicle weight ("GVW") of twenty thousand
(20,000) pounds or more to operate such vehicle on a residential street within
the City, provided such street is posted to prohibit the driving of such
vehicles upon such street. The Bellevue Marshal shall have the authority to
post signs on any residential street within the City prohibiting vehicles with
a GVW of twenty thousand (20,000) pounds or more from being operated on said
street when there is a reasonable likelihood of damage to said street being
caused by vehicles with a GVW in excess of that posted. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to: (Ord. 2006-03, 11-21-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Emergency vehicles, such as fire trucks and ambulances;
      2.   School buses;
      3.   Utility service vehicles, such as snowplows, City street
construction or maintenance equipment;
      4.   Essential public services, such as garbage trucks; and
      5.   Vehicles delivering personal property and construction materials to
real property in a neighborhood adjacent to a residential street. (Ord. 2006-
03, 11-21-2005)
   C.   Special Permits For Overweight Vehicles:
      1.   Upon application in writing to the Common Council of the City, the
Common Council may, in its discretion, issue a special permit to the owner or
operator of any vehicle allowing the vehicle or loads having a greater weight
than permitted by subsection B of this section to be moved or carried over and
on the streets and bridges of the City. Such special permits shall be in
writing and may limit the time of use, operation to a particular street and/or
bridge which may be traversed and/or may contain any special conditions and may
require an undertaking or other security as the Common Council shall deem
necessary to protect the streets and bridges from injury or to provide
indemnity for any injury to the streets and/or bridges or to persons or
property resulting from such operation. The owner or operator of an overweight
vehicle shall obtain such special permit before moving the vehicle on the
streets of the City. All special permits shall be carried in the vehicles to
which they refer and shall, upon demand, be delivered for inspection to any
peace officer, authorized agent of the City or any officer or employee of the
City or the State of Idaho charged with the care or protection of the streets
or highways. (Ord. 2004-08, 6-29-2004)
      2.   The Common Council may designate the City Marshal or another City
official to issue such special permits. Any decision of such designee shall be
appealable to the Common Council in writing within ten (10) days of the date of
such decision. The appeal shall be submitted to the City Clerk setting forth in
detail the specific grounds of the appeal. If no appeal is filed within such
ten (10) day period, the decision shall be final. (Ord. 2004-08, 6-29-2004;
amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   The special permit shall be valid from the date of issue to December
31 of the year of issuance; or for a period from January 1 to December 31 of
the year of issuance. (Ord. 2004-08, 6-29-2004)
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalty provisions
of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2004-08, 6-29-2004; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILES AND OTHER SELF-PROPELLED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Compliance With Provisions
6-2-2: Driver's License Required
6-2-3: Permitted And Restricted Streets And Alleys
6-2-4: Operation Of Vehicles
6-2-5: Hours Of Operation
6-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or allow to be driven on the
streets, alleys, or public thoroughfares of the City any snowmobile or other
self-propelled recreational vehicle under one thousand (1,000) pounds' unladen
gross weight, designed primarily for travel on snow or ice, which may be
steered by tracks, skis, or runners, except as in this chapter provided. (1983
Code § 4.201)
6-2-2: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No snowmobile or other self-propelled recreational vehicle may be operated on
the streets, alleys, and public thoroughfares of the City unless the driver
thereof holds a valid motor vehicle driver's license issued by the State of
Idaho. (1983 Code § 4.202)
6-2-3: PERMITTED AND RESTRICTED STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Snowmobiles or other self-propelled recreational vehicles as described
herein may be driven on the streets, alleys, or public thoroughfares of the
City only for access to and from snowmobile recreation areas and only upon the
following described streets in the City:
      1.   Any north/south street except State Highway 75 and all east/west
streets;
      2.   Any alley, except where the use of any alley would impede other
traffic or cause the crossing of any street prohibited for the use of
snowmobiles.
   B.   No snowmobile or other self-propelled recreational vehicle may cross
State Highway 75 except at the intersection of State Highway 75 and Cottonwood
Street and then only for access to Broadford Road, and only as in this chapter
provided. (1983 Code § 4.202)
6-2-4: OPERATION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Yield Right-Of-Way: Every snowmobile or other self-propelled
recreational vehicle must yield the right-of-way at all times to every other
vehicle. (1983 Code § 4.203)
   B.   Ride Single File: When two (2) or more snowmobiles or other self-
propelled recreational vehicles are travelling together, they shall proceed in
a single file. (1983 Code § 4.204)
   C.   Towing Persons, Sleds Or Trailers: No sled or person may be towed by
any snowmobile or other self-propelled recreational vehicle upon the streets,
alleys, or public thoroughfares of the City; provided, however, that a sled or
trailer which is specifically designed for towing by a snowmobile or other
self- propelled recreational vehicle may be towed under the provisions of this
chapter if such sled or trailer contains runners and is solidly attached to the
pulling snowmobile or other self- propelled recreational vehicle by a steel
tongue fastened solidly to the snowmobile or other self-propelled recreational
vehicle and the sled or trailer; and provided further, no such sled or trailer
may be utilized as provided herein unless equipped with sufficient warning
lights to give adequate warning of its presence to other persons or vehicles in
the area of its operation. (1983 Code § 4.202)
6-2-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No snowmobile or other self-propelled recreational vehicle shall be operated
upon the streets, alleys, and public thoroughfares of the City between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the following
day, except when returning from a snowmobile recreation area outside the City
and where such return is made in the most direct route from such area to the
residence of the person operating the snowmobile or other self- propelled
recreational vehicle. (1983 Code § 4.207)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING VEHICLES OR PLACING PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PUBLIC RIGHTS- OF-WAY
SECTION:
6-3-1: Parking Near Public Rights-Of-Way
6-3-2: Storing Personal Property On Rights-Of-Way
6-3-3: All Night Use In Business District
6-3-4: Parking Restrictions
6-3-5: Removal Of Vehicles And Personal Property
6-3-6: Signs Stating Other Provisions
6-3-7: Responsibility For Towing And Removal Costs
6-3-1: PARKING NEAR PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
No person shall park any motor vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle, boat or
utility trailer (collectively referred to herein as "vehicles") on any portion
of the right-of-way of any public street within ten feet (10') of the edge of
the roadway surface, including, but not limited to, asphalt, concrete, stamped
concrete, paver brick or compacted gravel surface within the City, except
within the street right-of-way of 2nd Street where no person shall park any
motor vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle, boat or utility trailer
(collectively referred to herein as "vehicles") on any portion of the right-of-
way within eight feet (8') of the edge of said roadway surface. (Ord. 2007-13,
4-12-2007)
6-3-2: STORING PERSONAL PROPERTY ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   No person shall place or store any item of personal property,
including, without limitation, fire wood, building material, compost,
dumpsters, junk or landscape debris (collectively referred to herein as
"personal property") on any portion of the right-of-way of any public street in
the City. "Vehicles", as defined in subsection A of this section, are not
included in the definition of personal property for the purposes of this
subsection.
   B.   No person shall place or store any vehicle or personal property on any
portion of the right-of-way of any alley within the City. (Ord. 2007-13, 4-12-
2007)
6-3-3: ALL NIGHT USE IN BUSINESS DISTRICT:
Any vehicle or personal property located within the right-of-way of any public
street within the Business Zoning District of the City during the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of each day may be removed at
the direction of any law enforcement officer or the Street Superintendent of
the City without prior notice to the owner thereof. (Ord. 2007-13, 4-12-2007)
6-3-4: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in compliance with
law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control device, no person
shall stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers, within thirty feet (30') of an
intersection of two (2) streets or twenty feet (20') of the entrance to an
alley from a street or within ten feet (10') of the entrance to a private or
public driveway. (Ord. 2007-13, 4-12-2007)
6-3-5: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AND PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Any vehicle or personal property located within the right-of- way of
any public street in violation of this chapter may be removed at the direction
of any law enforcement officer or the Street Superintendent of the City after
forty eight (48) hours of posting notice of such violation on the vehicle or
personal property by any law enforcement officer, the Street Superintendent or
the Planning and Zoning Administrator of the City.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, any vehicle or
personal property located within the right-of-way of any public street in
violation of this chapter may be removed at the direction of any law
enforcement officer or the Street Superintendent of the City without prior
notice to the owner thereof if such vehicle or personal property is interfering
with the plowing of snow, work/maintenance on any street, or water, sewer or
other public utility, or is a hazard to public safety. (Ord. 2007-13, 4-12-
2007)
6-3-6: SIGNS STATING OTHER PROVISIONS:
The City reserves the right to further limit or prohibit the parking or storage
of vehicles and/or personal property on any portion of any public right-of-way
within the City by posting signs stating such limitation or prohibition. No
person shall violate any such limitation or prohibition so posted. Furthermore,
any vehicle or personal property in violation of this section may be removed at
the direction of any law enforcement officer, the Street Superintendent or the
Planning and Zoning Administrator of the City without prior notice to the owner
thereof. (Ord. 2007-13, 4-12-2007)
6-3-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR TOWING AND REMOVAL COSTS:
The owner of any vehicle or personal property removed for violation of any
provision of this chapter shall pay all costs of towing or removal and storage
costs and fees before the same may be restored to the owner. (Ord. 2007-13, 4-
12-2007)
CHAPTER 4
HAND HELD MOBILE ELECTRONIC DEVICES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Use Of Wireless Communication Devices
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
Drivers who communicate on handheld wireless devices such as cell phones while
driving cause a distraction, which create hazards to motorists, passengers and
pedestrians. Restricting the use of handheld wireless devices by drivers will
promote public safety. (Ord. 2020-01, 2-10-2020)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
           Any handheld or portable electronic device capable of receiving, producing,
           displaying, or providing wireless data or voice communication, including a
           cellular telephone, broadband personal communication device, tow-way messaging
           device, text messaging device, pager, personal digital assistant, laptop
HANDHELD   computer, computer tablet, standalone computer, portable computing device,
MOBILE     mobile device with a touchscreen display that is designed to be worn,
ELECTRONIC electronic games, equipment that is capable of playing a video, taking
DEVICE:    photographs, capturing images or recording or transmitting video, any and
           similar device that is readily removable from a vehicle any may be used to
           write, send or read text or data or capture images or video through manual
           input. "Handheld mobile electronic device” shall not include a radio designed
           for the citizens band service or the amateur radio series of the Federal
           Communications Commission or a commercial two-way radio communications device.
OPERATE:   Driving or occupying the driver's position of a vehicle in motion upon a public
           road, street, or highway.
           The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for
           the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
PARKED:    passengers. "Parked" shall not include a vehicle stopped in a lane of traffic
           due to a traffic control device, traffic congestion, or conditions on the
           roadway.
           The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for
           the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging
STANDING:  passengers. "Standing" shall not include a vehicle stopped in a lane of traffic
           due to a traffic control device, traffic congestion, or conditions on the
           roadway.
VEHICLE:   Any vehicle as defined in Idaho Code Title 49, Chapter 1. (Ord. 2020-01, 2-10-
           2020)
 
6-4-3: USE OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle within the City while using a
handheld mobile electronic device. This provision shall not apply to:
   A.   Use of a handheld mobile electronic device in a voice-operated or
hands-free mode, where the operator of the vehicle does not hold or manually
operate the device, except to activate or deactivate the voice-operated
function of the device.
   B.   Use of a navigation feature on a handheld mobile electronic device,
provided that the operator of the vehicle does not hold or manually enter
information into the device, except to activate or deactivate the navigation
feature on the device.
   C.   Use of a handheld mobile electronic device to report an emergency to a
law enforcement agency, fire department, health care provider, or other
emergency services provider.
   D.   An operator of a vehicle that is parked or standing.
   E.   A peace officer, firefighter, paramedic, emergency medical technician,
or other public safety, first responder during the performance of that person's
official duties.
   F.   A public utility employee or contractor acting within the scope of that
person's employment while responding to a public utility emergency. (Ord. 2020-
01, 2-10-2020)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Excavations
7-1-2: Damaging, Obstructing Public Ways
7-1-3: Prohibited Snow And Ice Removal
7-1-4: Littering Prohibited
7-1-5: Damage To Traffic Control Devices
7-1-6: Street And Alley Improvements
7-1-1: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Written Permission Required: No person, firm, or corporation shall dig
in, excavate, trench, or otherwise disturb the surface or subsurface of any
street or right-of-way within the City without first obtaining the written
permission from the Public Works Director or Street Supervisor. Application
shall be made to the Director or Supervisor on a form to be provided by the
City.
   B.   Prohibited Period: No permission, as described in subsection A of this
section, shall be given, except in cases of extreme emergency, during the
period from October 31 of each year to April 1 of the following year, when the
ground is frozen or likely to be frozen.
   C.   Safety Devices: Before and during any digging, excavating, or other
disturbance of any street or right-of-way, the person, firm, or corporation
responsible shall adequately flag and post the excavation, in the interest of
public safety.
   D.   Restoration Of Excavated Area: Each person, firm, or corporation
obtaining written permission for work as provided herein shall restore the
surface of the street or right-of-way to a condition satisfactory to the Public
Works Director or Street Supervisor. The permittee shall have such time as is
specified in the permit to restore the street or right-of-way according to the
City specifications. Trenches must be adequately compacted against settling,
and the contractor shall be liable for any further repairs necessary due to
settling. (Ord. 216, 3-13-1986)
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person, firm, or corporation convicted of violating the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 216, 3-13-1986; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   The City may proceed in a civil action for damages to collect the
amount of money found necessary to restore the surface of the street or right-
of-way disturbed, dug in, excavated or trenched without the written permission
as in this section required, or where the surface restoration has been found to
be inadequate or substandard according to City street specifications. (Ord.
216, 3-13-1986)
7-1-2: DAMAGING, OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, injure, or damage any street,
alley, public thoroughfare, or bridge of the City by placing any obstruction
thereon or by digging in, deepening, or deviating the water of any stream, or
by placing any obstruction in any ditch or stream within or along any such
street, alley, public thoroughfare, or bridge, or by placing or constructing
any obstruction, ditch, or embankments upon his or other lands so as to make or
cause any water to flow upon or impair any street, alley, public thoroughfare,
or bridge, or to in any other manner injure or obstruct any street, alley,
public thoroughfare, or bridge of the City. Any person convicted of violating
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1983 Code §§ 4.301, 4.304; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-3: PROHIBITED SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   No person shall place, plow or otherwise deposit snow or ice onto any
public street, alley, sidewalk or other public way within the City. (Ord. 99-
11, 11-10-1999)
   B.   Any snow or ice placed, plowed or deposited within twenty five feet
(25') of a fire hydrant, onto any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public way within the City may be removed by the City, and the cost thereof
shall be paid by the owner of the real property from which the snow was removed
(herein referred to as "said private property") and placed, plowed or deposited
onto said public street, alley, sidewalk or other public way. A snow removal
fee schedule to reasonably reimburse the City for its costs (equipment and
labor) of said snow removal by the City shall be established by resolution of
the Common Council of the City. Said snow removal fee shall be due and payable
by the owner of said private property to the City within thirty (30) days of
the date a bill therefor is sent by the City to the owner of the real property
at the address set forth in the records of property ownership in the Office of
the Blaine County Assessor, Hailey, Idaho. If the snow removal fee is not paid
when due, in addition to all other remedies at law, said snow removal fee shall
be deemed a special assessment against said private property for which a lien
may be placed upon said private property and foreclosed upon and otherwise
collected by the City in the manner provided by law for special assessments.
Payment of the snow removal fee shall not excuse violation of this section nor
prevent the City from filing a criminal or civil action. (Ord. 99-11, 11-10-
1999; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-4: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently throw or permit
to be thrown, or to fly from any vehicle, or to deposit upon or alongside any
street, alley, public thoroughfare, or bridge of the City any debris, paper,
litter, glass, nails, tacks, trash or garbage, or other such waste substance.
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of an infraction and subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1983 Code §§ 4.302, 4.304; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-5: DAMAGE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any traffic regulation
sign or street sign including, but not limited to, stop signs, yield signs,
caution signs, street designation markers, speed limit designation signs, or
any sign or marker of any kind located upon any street, alley, public
thoroughfare, bridge, or public easement of any kind. Any person convicted of
violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1983 Code §§ 4.303, 4.304; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-6: STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS:
Whenever any street or alley in the City has been laid out on any plat,
including the original townsite plat, but has never been opened or improved to
provide access to abutting properties, whether by the City or abutting property
owners, those abutting property owners who desire to open or improve such
street or alley shall be financially responsible for the costs of such action.
All street and alley improvements shall be done according to City standards and
specifications. (Ord. 214/86-1, 4-10-1986)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC PATHWAYS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permitted And Prohibited Uses Of Pathway System
7-2-2: Application Of Provisions
7-2-3: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
7-2-1: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES OF PATHWAY SYSTEM:
Any and all portions of the pathway easement dedicated to the Blaine County
Recreation District or to the City of Bellevue for use as a path for
pedestrians, equestrians, bicycle riders, skiers and snowshoers, which has been
improved for such purposes, shall be utilized and enjoyed by the public
according to the following rules and regulations:
   A.   The public pathway easement premises shall only be used by pedestrians,
equestrians, and bicycle riders.
   B.   Except when necessary for construction or maintenance of the pathway,
no motorized vehicles, including, but not limited to, mopeds, motorcycles,
trail bikes, motorized bicycles, motor scooters, and snow machines shall be
permitted on the pathway easement premises. (Ord. 230, 8-9-1990)
7-2-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall apply to any and all portions of the following public
property easements and rights-of-way upon the posting of signs prohibiting use
by motorized vehicles as herein defined:
   A.   All portions of the public pathway system dedicated to the Blaine
County Recreation District for use as a path for pedestrians, equestrians, and
bicycle riders.
   B.   All public pathways within the street and alley rights-of-way of the
City. (Ord. 230, 8-9-1990)
   C.   Howard Preserve. (2018 Code)
7-2-3: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 230, 8-9-1990; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Prohibited Acts
7-3-3: Fires
7-3-4: Garbage, Refuse And Trash
7-3-5: Firearms, Bows, Hunting And Trapping
7-3-6: Animals
7-3-7: Vehicles
7-3-8: Picnics, Food And Beverages
7-3-9: Organized, Major, Special And Seasonal Events
7-3-10: Sales And Vending
7-3-11: Posting Signs And Advertisements
7-3-12: Camping
7-3-13: Noise
7-3-14: Park Use Permits
7-3-15: Park Hours
7-3-16: Authority To Close Parks
7-3-17: Additional Rules And Regulations
7-3-18: Removal Of Violators From Parks
7-3-19: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall apply as
defined herein:
BELLEVUE OR CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
COMMON COUNCIL: The Common Council of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
DESIGNATED AREA: An area or facility within a City park designated and signed
for use in a specific and limited manner.
MAJOR EVENT: An organized event involving the use of a City park planned for
attendance and/or participation by one hundred (100) or more individuals which
will preclude the use of such park, or a portion thereof, by any person other
than those participating in such planned event.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motorized self-propelled vehicle. The definition of "motor
vehicle" does not include a person operating an electric personal assistive
mobility device, as defined in Idaho Code title 49.
MOTORIZED RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any motorized self-propelled, off road, or all-
terrain conveyance including, but not limited to, a snowmobile, all-terrain
vehicle (ATV), go-cart, motorcycle, dirt bike, minibike, trail bike, dune buggy
or similar vehicle.
ORGANIZED EVENT: A planned event involving use of a City park planned for
attendance and/or participation of twenty five (25) to ninety nine (99)
individuals in a manner which will preclude the use of such park, or a portion
thereof, by any person other than those participating in such planned event.
PARK OR CITY PARK: Any and all lands, real property, trails, and the buildings,
structures and facilities thereon, that are owned, operated or maintained by
Bellevue for park or recreational purposes and includes all land granted to the
City for such purposes.
PATHWAY: Any constructed trail which has been designated and signed for the use
of pedestrians and/or bicyclists and/or other specific classification of uses.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot and any person operating a wheelchair or motorized
wheelchair. "Pedestrian" includes persons operating an electric personal
assistive mobility device as defined in Idaho Code title 49.
PERMIT: The written permit issued by the Bellevue City Clerk to carry out a
given activity in a City park.
PERMITTEE: An individual, corporation, legal entity, society or any group to
whom a permit is issued.
PERSON OR PERSONS: An individual, corporation, legal entity, society or any
group or gathering whatsoever.
SEASONAL EVENT: An organized or programmed event scheduled over a period of
weeks or months, such as recreational athletic leagues or other seasonal or
special use of a City park or portion thereof.
SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLE: Any human propelled wheeled device including, but not
limited to, a skateboard, roller skates, scooter, in-line skates, bicycle or
other wheeled recreational equipment.
SPECIAL USE EVENT: The use of an area or facility (other than a City park)
owned by the City for holding any tournament, entertainment, or exhibition, or
used in a manner not customary or usual or normally allowed in that area,
portion thereof, or facility therein of which the general public is invited
with or without charge and which creates significant public impact through:
   A.   The attraction of crowds of over two hundred (200) people; or
   B.   The necessity for street closures or use of other public property; or
   C.   The required use of City equipment and/or services; or
   D.   Could reasonably be determined by the City to cause significant public
impact such as disturbance, crowds, traffic/parking problems or the disruption
of the normal routine of the community or affected neighborhood.
WILDLIFE ANIMAL: Any living creature, not human, wild by nature, including all
mammals, birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans, and mollusks. (Ord.
2005-08, 2-24-2005; amd. Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007)
7-3-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person using any City park shall perform or permit a child under his/her
custody or control to perform any of the following acts:
   A.   Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or
remove any trees, plants, or other natural features, buildings, bridges,
tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, signs, monuments, stakes, posts or other
markers, structures, equipment, facilities, improvements, or other property, or
parts thereof whatsoever, either real or personal, within any City park.
   B.   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountain, pond, stream, river, or other body of water, or on the
ice thereof, in or adjacent to any City park, any substance, matter, or thing,
liquid, or solid which will or may result in the pollution or contamination of
said waters.
   C.   Engage in violent, abusive, indecent, profane, unreasonably loud, or
other disorderly conduct under circumstances in which such conduct constitutes
a disturbance of the peace or a public nuisance or a violation of any law of
the State of Idaho or ordinance of the City.
   D.   Endanger the safety of or damage the property of any person by any
conduct or act.
   E.   Violate any ordinance, rule, regulation or resolution of the City
governing the use of or conduct within a City park.
   F.   Prevent any person from using any City park, or any of its facilities,
or interfere with such use which is in compliance with this chapter and the
rules and regulations of the City applicable thereto.
   G.   Fail to maintain any restroom in a neat and sanitary condition.
   H.   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public service
utility into, upon, across or under any City park or any portion thereof,
except pursuant to a written permit issued by the City.
   I.   Climb upon or go inside any security fence, maintenance area, or other
permanent or temporarily restricted area within any City park.
   J.   1. Damage, cut, carve into, transplant or remove any tree or plant, or
injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant, except City
personnel or other persons authorized by the City for safety, maintenance or
land management purposes.
      2.   Attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant.
      3.   Dig in or otherwise disturb any grass area or climb trees; except,
that retrieval of personal property unintentionally lodged in a tree or other
plant shall be permitted; provided, that such removal is achieved safely and
without damage to any tree or plant.
   K.   Hunt, kill, molest, harm, trap, chase, harass, tease, annoy, shoot or
throw missiles at any domestic animal or wildlife animal; nor remove or have in
his or her possession the young of any wildlife animal, or the eggs or nest;
nor collect, remove, have in his or her possession, give away, sell or offer to
sell, buy or offer to buy, or accept as a gift any wildlife animal, alive or
dead, collected from any City park.
   L.   Use, carry, or be in the possession of any cup, jar or other container
made of glass within any City park. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005; amd. Ord. 2007-
15, 6-14-2007)
7-3-3: FIRES:
   A.   No person or group shall build or maintain a fire in any City park,
except for culinary purposes in grills or fireplaces specially provided by the
City for that purpose, except for controlled burning by City personnel or with
a written permit issued by the City.
   B.   No person or group shall leave a fire unattended within any City park,
and all fires shall be completely extinguished before leaving the area. (Ord.
2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-4: GARBAGE, REFUSE AND TRASH:
   A.   No person or group shall bring in, dump or deposit any bottles, broken
glass, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, or refuse or other
trash in any City park or leave such materials therein except in proper
receptacles provided for that purpose.
   B.   No refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters, or on the ice
thereof, in or contiguous to any City park, but shall be placed in the proper
receptacles provided for that purpose.
   C.   Charcoal residue shall be left in the fireplace or grill or placed in a
charcoal disposal container when provided.
   D.   Where receptacles are not provided, all rubbish, trash, waste and other
household garbage shall be carried away from any City park by the person
responsible for its presence.
   E.   Where receptacles for rubbish, waste, trash or other refuse are
provided for persons using City park facilities, no person shall leave,
deposit, or place any such refuse or household garbage not generated by use of
the park's facilities in said receptacles.
   F.   For purposes of this section, the term "household garbage" means those
discarded materials resulting from the handling, processing, storage and
consumption of food and all other materials produced from community life which
have not been generated by the use of park facilities. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-
2005)
7-3-5: FIREARMS, BOWS, HUNTING AND TRAPPING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in any City park to have in his or
her possession or under his or her control any firearm, air gun, paintball gun,
slingshot, bow, crossbow, or spring loaded device designed for shooting a
projectile, or have in his or her possession a trap(s) which can be used for
trapping animals.
   B.   No person shall hunt, take, catch, kill, trap, pursue, or otherwise
disturb any wildlife animal in any City park. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-6: ANIMALS:
   A.   1. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control or
custody of any pet in any City park to:
         a.   Permit any dog to run at large, and all dogs within any park
shall be kept under immediate control of a person either by leash no longer
than ten feet (10') or by verbal control of a person at all times;
         b.   Allow a pet to enter a shelter area, playground, park building,
or other unauthorized area;
         c.   Allow a pet to disturb, harass, interfere with or endanger the
safety of any person;
         d.   Allow a pet to damage park property, facilities, equipment or
vegetation;
         e.   Tether a pet to a tree, plant, building or park equipment, or
leave a pet unattended;
         f.   Bring a pet into a City park without possessing and using an
appropriate device for cleaning up pet feces and disposing of the feces in a
waste receptacle;
         g.   Lead or control a pet while on in-line skates, skateboard, skis,
bicycle or any other means except while on foot; or
         h.   Operate a cart, wagon, dogsled, skijoring device or any other
equipment pulled by a pet or other animal.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to:
         a.   Police authorized animals;
         b.   Service animals certified to and assisting persons with
disabilities; and
         c.   Handlers of search and rescue animals during the official
performance of their duties. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control or custody
of a horse to ride or drive such horse or permit such horse to go upon any
portion of any City park, except on trails specifically designated and signed
by the City for such use. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
7-3-7: VEHICLES:
   A.   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   No person in any City park shall:
         a.   Drive any motor vehicle in or upon any City park or portion
thereof except areas as may on occasion be specifically designated and signed
as temporary parking areas under a written permit.
         b.   Leave a vehicle standing or parked in any designated and signed
parking area after closing hours of the park or otherwise park overnight
without a prior written permit from the City.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to:
         a.   Vehicles operated by law enforcement personnel;
         b.   Emergency vehicles operated for purposes of transporting humans
in need of emergency services; and
         c.   Vehicles authorized by a written permit issued by the City.
   B.   Motorized Recreational Vehicles: No person shall ride or operate, or
permit a child to operate, any motorized recreational vehicle in any City park.
   C.   Self-Propelled Vehicles: No person shall ride or operate any self-
propelled vehicle or other wheeled recreation equipment in any City park except
areas designated and signed by the City for such use. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-8: PICNICS, FOOD AND BEVERAGES:
   A.   No person or group shall use any portion of the picnic areas or the
buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons without a written park use permit issued by the
City. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007)
   B.   City department heads shall be authorized to regulate the activities in
such areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use
and enjoyment by the public of such facilities. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007; amd.
2018 Code)
   C.   No person shall consume beer, wine or liquor in any City park unless a
written park use permit has been issued by the City for the event or gathering
such person is attending, together with any other permit required by law. (Ord.
2007-15, 6-14-2007)
7-3-9: ORGANIZED, MAJOR, SPECIAL AND SEASONAL EVENTS:
   A.   No person or persons shall engage in ball games or other sport
activities, except in such areas as are designed and signed by the City for
those purposes or in such areas where such activity will not interfere with the
use and enjoyment of the park by others.
   B.   No person or persons shall engage in any special event, organized
event, major event or scheduled athletic or other event in any City park
without first obtaining a written permit issued by the City pursuant to section
7-3-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007)
7-3-10: SALES AND VENDING:
No person or group shall vend, sell, or offer for sale any food, beverage, or
other commodity or article within any City park unless pursuant to a written
permit issued by the City. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-11: POSTING SIGNS AND ADVERTISEMENTS:
No person or group shall paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign,
placard, or advertisement, or distribute any handbills, pamphlets or other
materials, or advertise or solicit business or business events or activities in
any City park. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-12: CAMPING:
No person shall camp in any City park. For the purposes of this section,
camping is defined as setting up tents, shacks, sleeping bags or any other
temporary shelter for the purpose of staying overnight. No person shall leave
any such items or any moveable structure or motor vehicle, trailer, camper or
similar item in any City park after closing hours. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-13: NOISE:
No person shall disturb the peace or make any noise which unreasonably disturbs
the peace and quiet of any person in any City park or in the vicinity thereof
unless as part of an activity or event for which a permit has been issued by
the City and in compliance with said permit, or when such noise is necessary
for the protection or preservation of property or of the health, safety, life
or limb of some person. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-14: PARK USE PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Applications; Issuance: Use of any City park for an
organized event shall require the prior issuance by the City of a park use
permit. Applications for all such permits shall be obtained from the Office of
the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall process all such applications and issue
all park use permits in writing, except for permits for major organized events
which shall be issued by the Common Council. The City Clerk shall have the
authority and discretion to determine which City park is appropriate for use
for any particular event. The park use permits, fees and additional policies
for use of City parks shall be as set by resolution of the Common Council.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit Generally: A park use permit for use of a City
park shall be issued only upon the applicant's or organizer's payment of a park
use fee, refundable damage and cleaning deposit, and compliance with the
administratively adopted requirements for providing additional trash
receptacles and/or dumpsters, portable toilets, and security measures, which
requirements depend upon the nature and size of the event.
   C.   For Profit And Not For Profit Events; Special And Seasonal Events: A
park use permit for a for profit event of any size, special event, seasonal
event, or major not for profit event shall require proof of the applicant
having obtained general liability insurance coverage in the minimum amount of
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) covering the City as an additional insured,
and compliance with administratively adopted requirements for providing
additional trash receptacles, dumpsters, portable toilets, and security
measures, which requirements depend upon the nature and size of the event.
(Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007)
   D.   Major Events: No City park shall be used for the same major event (an
organized event planned for attendance and/or participation by 100 or more
individuals) or by the same applicant more than once during any one calendar
year without prior approval from the Common Council. No application for a park
use permit may be filed with the City Clerk more than nine (9) months in
advance of the event for which the permit is sought. No major event park use
permit shall be approved or issued more than one hundred twenty (120) days
prior to the date of the event for which the permit is sought. Major event park
permits shall not be issued on a first come basis. Instead, any conflict with
regard to applications for such park use permits shall be determined by the
Common Council based on the Common Council's determination as to which event
provides the greatest public benefit to the community with the least negative
impacts on the City. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   Consumption Or Sale Of Beer, Wine Or Alcohol:
      1.   If beer, wine or alcohol is to be consumed in a park, a park use
permit is required.
      2.   If beer, wine or alcohol is to be sold in a park, a City catering
permit is also required. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007)
   F.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City Clerk under
this section may appeal same in writing to the Common Council by filing a
written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days of the
decision being appealed. If no such appeal is timely filed, the decision shall
be final. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007; amd. 2018 Code)
7-3-15: PARK HOURS:
The hours of use for each of the City parks shall be from sunrise to sunset.
Such hours of use shall be posted in plain view by sign at each City park. No
person shall use any City park, under any circumstances, between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day without
a written park use permit issued by the City. (Ord. 2007-15, 6-14-2007; amd.
2018 Code; Ord. 2022-05, 7-25-2022)
7-3-16: AUTHORITY TO CLOSE PARKS:
Any portion of any City park may be declared closed to the public by the City
Administrator, under the direction of the Mayor, at any time and for any
interval of time, either temporarily or at regularly and stated intervals
(daily or otherwise), and either entirely or merely to certain uses as the City
Administrator shall find reasonably necessary. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-17: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Bellevue Common Council may adopt and amend additional rules and
regulations for the use and operation of any or all City parks by resolution.
(Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-18: REMOVAL OF VIOLATORS FROM PARKS:
Violation of this chapter or failure to comply with any rule or regulation
adopted by the Common Council shall, in addition to other applicable penalties,
result in the immediate removal of the person or persons from the park and/or
termination of the advance reservation. A police officer, or his duly
authorized representative, shall have the authority to eject from the park any
person acting in violation of this chapter or any rule or regulation of the
City adopted pursuant hereto. Any person ejected from the park shall leave
promptly and peaceably and shall not return to any City park for any reason on
the same calendar day of his or her ejection. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005)
7-3-19: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-08, 2-24-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purposes, Objectives And Policies
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Bellevue Park Committee
7-4-4: Care And Maintenance Of Trees And Shrubs; Prohibited Acts
7-4-5: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
7-4-1: PURPOSES, OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES:
This chapter is adopted to encourage the planting, preservation, protection,
and proper care and maintenance of trees within the City of Bellevue, Idaho
(herein referred to as "the City"). The ultimate goals are to make
recommendations to the Council as the Bellevue Park and Tree Committee deems
appropriate on matters relating to all aspects of parks and recreation within
the City including, without limitation, master planning, specific project
planning, policies, procedures, operations, improvements, care, maintenance,
budgeting and fundraising, thereby enhancing the beauty of the City, increasing
property values and making the community a more pleasant place to live and
work, and to protect and promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the City, including, without limitation, as follows:
   A.   To establish policies, regulations and standards necessary to ensure
that the City will realize the benefits of adequate and healthy trees, its
community forest, and safe active and passive parks and recreation.
   B.   To coordinate proper care and maintenance of trees and parks
emphasizing the use of good tree and ground cover care practices, to promote
tree species diversity, and to promote education for all citizens on proper
tree planting, care, permitted uses and nonpermitted uses of the parks and
overall maintenance.
   C.   It is hereby declared the policy of the City to protect trees planted
and growing within public streets, rights-of-way, parks and other property
owned or controlled by the City.
   D.   It is hereby declared the policy of the City to require the dedication
of park/recreation lands and the planting of street trees as part of the
required landscaping improvements in all new subdivisions and other
developments pursuant to the applicable subdivision, zoning and other
regulations of the City. (Ord. 2012-01, 6-14-2012)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section. All definitions regarding parks, recreation,
paths and dedications shall be as provided in title 11, chapter 5 of this Code.
COMMUNITY FOREST: The sum of all trees and shrubs within the City.
FLUSH CUT: Cutting within the branch bark collar or ridge of a branch when
pruning.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
association or private organization or entity of any character, except the
City.
PRIVATE TREE: Any tree on private property not owned or controlled by the City.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of real
property within the City.
PRUNING: The removal of branches and other limbs from a tree.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real property owned by the City either in fee simple
absolute or implied or expressed dedication to the City for the public for
present or future use for vehicular or pedestrian traffic or for public
easements under the ownership or control of the City. This definition shall
include, without limitation, all City streets, alleys, rights-of-way, easements
(where landscaping is permitted), parks, and other property owned or controlled
by the City.
PUBLIC STREET: Any public street, alley, easement or right-of-way owned or
controlled by the City either in fee simple absolute or implied or expressed
dedication to the City for the public for present or future use for vehicular
or pedestrian traffic.
PUBLIC TREE: Any tree on public property.
SHRUB: A perennial, multiple stemmed woody plant often formed by a number of
vertical or semi-upright branches arising from close or at ground level and
whose height at maturity is usually between three feet (3') and fifteen feet
(15').
STREET TREE: Any tree, shrub or other woody vegetation within a public street.
STUB: The short length of a branch remaining after pruning.
TOPPING: The cutting back of branches or limbs to stubs larger than three
inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
TREE: A woody perennial plant with one main vertical trunk or stem and many
branches. (Ord. 2012-01, 6-14-2012)
7-4-3: BELLEVUE PARK COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established; Membership; Appointment And Terms; Vacancies And
Removals: There is hereby created the Bellevue Park and Tree Committee ("BPC").
The BPC shall consist of a minimum of three (3) but no more than five (5)
voting members, each appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of
the Common Council ("Council") of the City. The initial appointment term shall
be one year for one member and two (2) years for two (2) members. Thereafter,
appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. Whenever a seat on the BPC
shall become vacant for whatever reason, the BPC shall report same to the
Council within fifteen (15) working days, and that vacancy shall be filed as
set forth herein by the Mayor and Council for the remainder of the vacated
term. The Council shall select the members to represent the broad interests of
the people of the City without regard to sex, age, race, nationality, religion,
disability or political affiliation. Voting members of the BPC may be residents
of the City or within a six (6) mile radius of the City limits to retain such
voting membership. The BPC may appoint nonvoting members as it deems
appropriate. The Council, by unanimous vote, may remove a BPC member for any
reason deemed appropriate by the Council.
   B.   Representation: One (1) representative from the City of Bellevue Staff
shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by a majority of the Council. The
representative will be an ad hoc, non-voting member of the Committee.
   C.   Purpose And Organization: The purpose of the Committee is to enhance
the beauty, vitality and sense of community of the City of Bellevue by
providing a variety of parks and recreational opportunities. The BPC shall be a
citizen's advisory group to assist the Mayor and Council in accomplishing the
goals, objectives and purposes of this chapter and to help administer the
provisions and regulations of this chapter. The BPC shall be organized and
conduct its affairs in accordance with this chapter and the relevant provisions
of Idaho Code.
   1.   Bylaws: The BPC shall adopt bylaws for the conduct of its governance,
meetings and affairs.
   2.   Officers: The BPC shall elect a Chair, Vice-Chair, and Secretary.
   3.   Committees: The BPC may establish subcommittees and advisory committees
to advise the BPC in carrying out its duties and responsibilities under this
chapter, fundraising and other related endeavors.
   4.   Voting: All three (3) Committee members shall have voting rights. A
majority of the members of the BPC shall constitute a quorum, and a majority of
a quorum may decide issues before the BPC.
   5.   Reports And Recommendations: The BPC shall make such reports and
recommendations to the Council as the BPC deems appropriate on matters relating
to parks within the City, including, without limitation, policies, procedures,
operations, planting, care, maintenance, tree removal and budgeting.
   6.   Meetings:
      a.   Regular Meetings: At least one regular meeting shall be held each
quarter of the year on such regular dates as the BPC may determine. The BPC
shall hold its first regular meeting in January of each year, which meeting
shall be designated as the annual meeting for the purpose of electing officers,
establishing regular meeting dates, and reviewing, amending, repealing or
adopting bylaws, policies, and procedures, and to consider such other matters
as lawfully on the agenda.
      b.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be scheduled as necessary as
provided by law.
      c.   Open To The Public: All BPC meetings and records shall be open to
the public and shall comply with the Open Meetings Law 1.
         d.   Executive Sessions: The Mayor and Council members shall have the
right to attend any executive session of the BPC.
         e.   Recordkeeping: A record of meetings, motions, studies, findings,
and actions taken shall be maintained as required by law.
   D.   Compensation: Members shall serve without salary, but may receive their
actual and necessary expenses while engaged in authorized business of the BPC
as budgeted and approved by the Council.
   E.   Duties And Responsibilities: The BPC's duties and responsibilities
shall include the following:
      1.   Establish bylaws for its governance, and maintain legal records of
all BPC meetings, recommendations and actions.
      2.   Provide recommendations to the City regarding planning, management,
administration, information/education and monitoring of City parks and trail
easements.
      3.   Report to the Council on any BPC matters upon request of the Mayor
or Council.
      4.   May make such recommendations to the Council at any time as the BPC
deems appropriate.
   F.   Annual Budget Request And Control Of Expenditures: The BPC may prepare
an annual budget request and submit same to the Council indicating any
anticipated revenues and expenditures for the upcoming fiscal year. All funds
and property, real and personal, acquired by the BPC by donation, gift or
otherwise shall be held in the name of the City and in the custody of the City
Treasurer. The BPC shall not make expenditures or incur indebtedness in any
year which is not approved in advance by the Council. Money or other funds
which are donated or given to the BPC may be expended only in accordance with
the City budget process. (Ord. 2012-01, 6-14-2012; amd. Ord. 2020-02, 1-27-
2020)
7-4-4: CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES AND SHRUBS; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   The City has the right to plant, maintain, and remove any tree or shrub
from public streets or other public property. The City may prune or remove any
tree, branch or root which is located within or encroaches over any public
street or other public property as the City may deem necessary, in its sole
discretion, to promote public safety or the beauty of public streets and public
property.
      1.   Develop standards and guidelines for the planting of new trees and
preservation of existing trees within public property, riparian areas, parking
areas, subdivisions and other developments including, without limitation,
standards for selection, planting, preservation, care, maintenance, irrigation,
pruning and removal of trees and shrubs.
      2.   Review requests for the pruning or removal of public trees.
      3.   Coordinate and implement Arbor Day celebrations and other such
related and similar activities.
      4.   Provide and promote education to the people, public utilities, and
tree removal and maintenance companies on the proper selection, planting, care,
maintenance and pruning of trees.
      5.   Identify and implement landscaping projects which improve the City
forest and/or the purposes, objectives and policies of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Damage, injure or poison any public tree; or
      2.   Attach or place any rope or wire (other than one used to support a
young, recently transplanted or broken tree), sign, poster, handbill,
advertisement or other thing to or on any public tree; or
      3.   To cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to come in
contact with any public tree; or
      4.   To cause or permit any gaseous, liquid or solid substance which may
be harmful to a tree to come in contact with a public tree; or
      5.   Prune, remove or destroy any public or street tree.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave branches or debris from
the pruning or removal of a tree in the right-of-way of any public street.
Branches and debris shall be immediately removed from the right-of-way upon
completion of the pruning or removal of the tree.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to top any street tree.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any person to flush cut any branch on any
street tree.
      9.   All stumps of street trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground, so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
   C.   Street trees shall be pruned and maintained by qualified (as determined
by the City Street Superintendent) City employees or under the supervision of a
certified arborist (International Society of Arboriculture) that is licensed by
the State of Idaho and insured.
   D.   All pruning of street trees undertaken by utilities, professional tree
care operators or other persons shall be done under the direct supervision of a
certified arborist (International Society of Arboriculture) that is licensed by
the State of Idaho and insured. Compliance with this standard shall require the
certified arborist to first visit the site of the work, to prescribe the
pruning to be done and to actively monitor the pruning operation, all of which
shall be in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   E.   Each private landowner shall comply with each of the following
regulations regarding any tree or shrub on his or her real property located
within the boundaries of the City:
      1.   Maintain such trees and shrubs so that they do not endanger the
public or become hazardous to any public street, alley or other public right-
of- way, public utilities or other public property in accordance with
applicable statutes of the State of Idaho and ordinances of the City.
      2.   Control infectious, communicable, destructive or dangerous pests and
diseases by removing debris, trees or shrubs infected with or harboring such
pests or diseases from private real property or by using other legally approved
methods to eradicate such insects or diseases that may pose a threat to the
community forest or any part thereof.
      3.   Upon discovery of any destructive, infectious or communicable
disease, pest or pathogen which endangers the health or growth of trees or
shrubs, or threatens to spread such disease, pest or pathogen, the City shall
cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the real property upon
which such diseased or infected tree or shrub is located requiring said
property owner to eradicate, remove or otherwise control such disease, pest or
pathogen within seven (7) days after such written notice is mailed, and said
real property owner shall comply therewith. (Ord. 2012-01, 6-14-2012; amd. Ord.
2020-02, 1-27-2020)
7-4-5: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor which shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2012-01, 6-14-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   In addition to the penalties set forth in subsection A of this section,
any person whose actions cause damage to or the death or destruction of a
public tree shall be liable to the City for the value of the public tree and
all costs incurred by the City in caring for, treating, pruning and/or removing
the public tree. (Ord. 2012-01, 6-14-2012)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purposes
8-1-2: Scope
8-1-3: Definitions
8-1-4: Connection To System
8-1-5: Service Lines
8-1-6: Construction Plans And Specifications
8-1-7: Fire Sprinklers And Standpipes
8-1-8: Water Conservation Measures
8-1-9: Damaging Or Tampering With System
8-1-10: Connecting Private Systems; Backflow Prevention Devices
8-1-11: Entry Powers
8-1-12: Right To Revoke Permits
8-1-13: Appeals
8-1-14: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
8-1-1: PURPOSES:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the City, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to, and
for providing an equitable distribution of, the costs and expense of
construction, maintenance, operation, upkeep, repair, replacement and
improvement of the entire public water system which includes the water wells,
springs, storage tanks, pumps, distribution and related improvements of the
City, to charge and collect service charges or fees upon all lots, lands,
property and premises served or benefited by the public water system of the
City, and to provide for the control, use and administration of the
installation of private water systems where a public water system is not
available. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property and persons within
the corporate limits of the City, and any special users outside of the
corporate limits of the City, including all property owned or occupied by the
United States of America, Blaine County, Idaho, and the State of Idaho. (Ord.
2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings given to them in this
section:
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The Water Superintendent, as appointed by the City, or
his/her duly authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
BACK PRESSURE BACKFLOW: The flowing back of used, contaminated, or polluted
water from a plumbing fixture or vessel into a water supply pipe due to a
pressure less than atmospheric in such pipe.
BACK SIPHONAGE BACKFLOW: Backflow due to an increased pressure above the supply
pressure, which may be due to pumps, boilers, gravity or other sources of
pressure.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or fluid, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water supply from any sources other than its
intended source. (See definitions of back siphonage backflow and back pressure
backflow.)
BOND RATE: A class of users having service connections to the lot, but no water
uses on the property due to buildings having been removed, condemned or
destroyed by fire, flood or other disaster event. The monthly user rate
assessed for this class of properties shall be based on the equivalent density
unit (EDU) value of the monthly outstanding bond cost, plus an administrative
surcharge for billing and accounting to be set by the Council by resolution.
BUILDING WATER LINE: The extension from the building to the point of connection
with the public water system, and is also referred to as "water service line"
or "building water line".
CAPITALIZATION FEE: The water capitalization fee is a connection charge paid by
a property that connects to the system and does not contribute to the
construction or financing of the existing system.
CHLORINE REQUIREMENT: The amount of chlorine, in parts per million by weight,
which must be added to the water system to produce a specified residual
chlorine content, or to meet the requirements of some other objective, in
accordance with the procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
CIRCUIT BREAKER RATE: A reduced fee assessed to a property owner who has been
approved by the State of Idaho Tax Commission and Blaine County Assessor's
Department to receive a reduction in assessed Property Taxes, commonly known as
a circuit breaker. The monthly circuit breaker rate shall not be less than the
current bond rate fee established by resolution.
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho, its Common Council and authorized
representatives.
COMMON COUNCIL: The duly elected Common Council of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
CORPORATION STOP: The water shutoff valve after which the private service line
begins. The corporation stop is part of the Municipal water system and is under
the exclusive control of the City. The corporation stop is also referred to as
a "corp stop" in this chapter.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation, and shall include, but not be limited to, any
single-family home, apartment, townhouse unit, condominium unit, duplex,
manufactured home, mobile home or house trailer, or rooming house room
constructed or used in such a manner as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or
more persons, whether or not the same shall have a kitchen.
IRRIGATE, IRRIGATION: The watering of lawns, trees, shrubs, and other
vegetation within the City of Bellevue, including, without limitation, the use
of sprinklers, sprinkler or irrigation systems, hoses (whether hand held or
left running), or other devices.
MAY: Is permissive.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group, or other entity.
PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: A water system serving one or more buildings, residences
or properties, constructed by private contract outside of the public right-of-
way, and remaining under private ownership and jurisdiction, and which shall be
maintained by said private owners. Private water systems shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained by said private owners to the same design,
construction, and maintenance standards as the public water system.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A water system owned and operated by the City. All
portions of the public water system shall be located in dedicated public
rights-of-way, City owned property or easements. The public water system is
also referred to as the "Municipal water system" in this chapter.
REPLACEMENT: Any expenditure for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
SERVICE CHARGE: The charge levied on all users of the public water system for
the purpose of repayment of City indebtedness for the construction and
installation of the system and for its efficient maintenance, operation,
replacement and improvement, and in establishing such rates and charges, the
City has taken into account the cost and value of the system, operation,
maintenance, replacement and improvement expenses, possible delinquencies,
proper allowance for depreciation, contingencies and any amounts necessary to
retire all bonds payable from net revenues and the reserve required for these.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
WATER SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which a building water service line is
connected to the public water system at the corp stop.
WATER SUPERINTENDENT: The Water Superintendent of the City.
WATER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
or group who has property connected to or using the public water system. (Ord.
2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-4: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Connection Required: Every parcel of land or premises within the
boundaries of the City, improved for residential occupancy and occupied or used
by any person, or for a commercial, industrial, business, governmental,
recreational, or other use, shall be connected to the public water system. All
charges associated with the laying of pipe from the home or facilities to be
served by the City's mains and all other costs incurred in connecting to said
public water system shall be borne by the property owner. All such connections
to the public water system mains shall be properly designed and constructed in
conformity with requirements specified by the City. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct, use or maintain any well unless otherwise approved by
the Council, Idaho Department of Water Resources, and South Central Public
Health District for areas of land located within the City limits such as, but
not limited to, lands located at the west boundary City limits adjacent to
Lower Broadford Road and the sixty one (61) acre parcel owned by the City,
located at the east boundary City limits adjacent to Slaughterhouse Road. (Ord.
2010-06, 9-23-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Permit To Connect; Capacity Of System:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to uncover, make any opening into, use,
install, connect to, repair or alter any portion of the public water system or
any portion or appurtenance thereof or to tap onto or connect to any public
water system line without having first obtained from the City a permit. A
written application for a connection to the public water system shall be made
at the Office of the City Clerk, and no such connection shall be made without a
valid permit having been issued by the Water Superintendent.
      2.   A water connection permit application shall include an application
form provided by the City, plans of the proposed work, and payment of all
applicable fees. In addition, in applicable circumstances, prior to issuance of
the water connection permit, the applicant shall obtain a street excavation
permit and post a bond for street restoration, which work shall be completed
within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the water connection permit. At the
time of filing the application for the water connection permit, the applicant
shall pay the City the water connection permit fee, water system capitalization
fee, and all other fees required by this chapter.
      3.   If, in the judgment and discretion of the Common Council, water
wells, storage tanks, distribution lines or other facilities have reached
capacity, or the granting of permits for further and additional water to the
public water system would result in a lack of capacity of said system or any
significant portion thereof, the City may refuse to accept applications for, or
issuance of, any water permits for connections to said system until the public
water system shall have adequate and satisfactory capacity to supply the City.
   C.   Permit Limitations:
      1.   Except for existing structures, no water connection permit shall be
issued to any person until a valid building permit has been issued for the
building or structure for which a water connection is contemplated. A copy of
the building permit shall be submitted by the applicant to and filed with the
Water Superintendent.
      2.   The existence of a water connection permit shall not permit any work
for which the street excavation permit is required by the City. Streets,
sidewalks, alleys and other public property disturbed in the course of the work
shall be restored in accordance with the street standards ordinance at the
applicant's expense.
      3.   No connection shall be made to the Municipal water system between
October 15 and April 15 unless otherwise approved by the Water Superintendent
(WSI).
   D.   Utility Payment Agreement Required: No connection of any kind to a
public water line or the public water system shall be made nor shall any City
water be permitted to flow through such connection except pursuant to an
approved utility payment agreement, signed by the property owner or legal
representative, issued by the City as required under this chapter. In the event
that the City does not make the water connection, the City may reject any
material or workmanship for cause, and upon such order, rejected material shall
be removed and replaced with approved material. Disapproved workmanship shall
cause the removal and replacement of all materials involved, including
appurtenances, excavation, backfilling and other items. The City may require
backflow prevention devices on service lines serving fire sprinklers,
standpipes and similar uses where there is a risk of contamination from water
backflow.
   E.   Plumber Requirements:
      1.   Except for City personnel, it shall be unlawful for any person not
having a current and valid State of Idaho plumber's license or public works
license to connect to, repair, alter or work on any public water line.
      2.   No person without a valid State plumber permit shall make any
connection with, or opening into, or otherwise alter any portion of the public
water system or appurtenance thereto, except for work done by the City Water
Department and personnel. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-5: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Independent Lines Required; Exceptions:
      1.   Each single-family residential dwelling unit on a separate lot or
parcel shall have a separate and independent water service line with a
corporation stop. Each nonresidential building on a lot or parcel shall have a
separate and independent water service line with a corp stop, and no building
or unit on a lot or parcel of land shall share a water service line to another
building or unit on a different lot or parcel of land. Separate, independent
water service lines are not required for each RV space in an RV park, each
manufactured home space in a mobile home park, each unit in a motel or cabin
court, each room in a hotel, each unit in a multiple-family dwelling, or an
accessory dwelling unit. The water service line shall be on the same property
as the unit, units or buildings being served and shall not cross another parcel
of real property without a written permit therefor being issued by the WSI to
ensure the adequacy of the design, location and recorded easement therefor.
      2.   Where water service is now provided through one building water line
to several buildings, upon written application of the property owner, the City
may approve in writing, for a stated and limited period of time, subject to
reasonable conditions, continuing to provide water service through said line
until separate water service lines are provided at the owner's expense. Where
more than one water user is served from one such service line, the established
rate shall be charged for each building or use served in the same manner as if
each did, in fact, have an individual water service line.
   B.   Installation Of Lines:
      1.   When a water connection permit has been granted, the water tap at
the water main and the line from the water main to the corporation stop shall
be installed by the City at the applicant's expense, and the water service line
from the corporation stop to the building shall be installed and maintained by
and at the expense of the owner of the building served.
      2.   All water service lines within any public right-of-way or easement
shall be constructed, inspected before the work is covered, tested, and
certified as being in conformance with the City standard drawings and standard
specifications governing the construction of water service lines. All costs and
expenses incident to the installation and/or connection of the building water
service line and/or service connection, as well as all costs and expenses for
repairs and replacements of any damaged or defective building water service
lines and/or service connections occurring after inspection and approval by the
City Water Superintendent, shall be borne by the property owner receiving
service therefrom. The property owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned to the public water system
as a result of the installation of the building water service line, the making
of the service connection and/or the repair and replacement of the same.
      3.   If the property owner neglects, fails or refuses to correct, repair
or replace any such damage or defect within thirty (30) days after receiving
written notice to correct, issued by the City, the City may correct the same at
the costs and expense of the property owner. Said written notice to correct
shall be served upon any such property owner personally, or by registered or
certified mail, directed to his last known post office address, and should the
building water line or connection in question run from a living unit, such
written notice to correct shall also be served on the occupant thereof
personally, or by registered or certified mail, directed to his or her last
known post office address, and if such occupant is absent therefrom, by posting
such notice in a conspicuous place at the entrance of the living unit.
   C.   Maintenance And Repair Of Lines:
      1.   All water users shall keep their individual water service lines in
good repair and condition so that said lines shall function properly, not leak
and not allow detectible amounts of groundwater to enter into the public water
system.
      2.   When any water service line is obstructed, broken or leaking, the
owner of the building served shall immediately repair or cause to be repaired
the same at his own expense. No person shall construct, relay, repair, or
extend any water service line without having first obtained the appropriate
permit(s) therefor. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-6: CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All construction or reconstruction of the public water system or water
service line or any portion thereof shall be in accordance with each with the
following, including subsequent amendments thereto: the City Standard Drawings
and Specifications, Idaho Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems (IDAPA
58.01.08), the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC), the
Plumbing Code and such other specifications and design criteria as may
hereafter be adopted by the City Council. One copy of each shall be on file
with the City Clerk for public inspection during regular business hours. Plans
and profile drawings shall be prepared for all water system improvements,
extensions, reconstructions, or renovations; and all such plan and profile
drawings must be reviewed and approved in writing by the City Engineer and the
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality before any construction work on said
water lines is begun.
   B.   The holder of any permit for construction of water improvements within
public streets or right-of-way shall file record drawings with the City Water
Superintendent prior to final inspection. Record drawings of water line plans
shall be prepared by a professional engineer, and the record drawings shall be
provided to the City prior to the City accepting dedication of the
improvements. Record drawings shall include an acknowledgement thereon, signed
by the registered professional engineer in charge of the work, that, to the
best of his knowledge, the record drawings of the water lines are true and
correct and that said engineer has inspected the water line installation and
that the materials and installation of same were all done in reasonably close
conformance with the City Standard Specifications for the Construction of Water
Systems. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-7: FIRE SPRINKLERS AND STANDPIPES:
No person shall install, construct or connect any fire sprinkler or standpipe
to the City water system without having first obtained a permit therefor from
the Water Superintendent. The applicant shall submit plans therefor to the City
for approval as part of the application, and the same shall be installed
according to all applicable standards, rules and regulations. All main valves
shall be located off the City water main, in the public right-of-way and
accessible to City personnel at all times. Approved backflow prevention devices
shall be located on the line at locations approved by the City. A water
connection fee and a monthly service fee shall be paid to the City as set by
resolution of the Common Council. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-8: WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Wasting Water Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to waste
any water from the Municipal water system, including, without limitation, by
excessive irrigation or leaking water service line or water pipes.
   B.   Irrigation Restrictions:
      1.   During any one calendar year, no person shall irrigate a total of
more than ten thousand (10,000) square feet of a single parcel or lot of real
property with water from the Municipal water system. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
      2.   a. Between May 1 and September 30 of each calendar year, it shall be
unlawful for any person to irrigate any property within the City with water
supplied by the Municipal water system except in compliance with the schedule
and regulations set forth in this subsection B2.
         b.   The sprinkling or watering of outdoor plantings such as grass,
lawns, gardens, ground cover, shrubbery, trees or other landscaping shall be
restricted upon all properties with even numbered street addresses to even
numbered calendar days and upon all properties with odd numbered street
addresses to odd numbered calendar days, and shall be prohibited between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. daily except as
follows:
            (1)   Upon written request made by a water user, the City's
authorized agent may grant an exception to the prohibition and restriction of
Municipal water usage if the water user's usage will be for the purpose of
sprinkling or watering new plantings for a specified time period. The exception
will only apply to the newly planted area.
            (2)   Sprinkling or watering by commercial nurseries on their own
sites is specifically excluded from the prohibitions and restrictions of this
subsection B2.
            (3)   The water user is using water conservation irrigation devices
such as drip or bubbler style irrigation system that minimize water evaporation
losses. (Ord. 2016-01, 7-11-2016)
   C.   Emergency Water Rationing:
      1.   The Common Council is hereby empowered to adopt by resolution
emergency regulations and restrictions on the use of water during times of
drought, low precipitation or inadequate water supply. Such emergency
regulations and restrictions may include, but are not limited to, restricting
the time of day of water use, the days of water use, the types of water use and
the duration of water use for irrigation and/or domestic purposes. Such
resolution shall become effective upon posting in at least five (5) public
places within the City or upon publication in the official newspaper of the
City.
      2.   In addition to the powers set forth in subsection C1 of this
section, the Mayor is hereby empowered to adopt by emergency proclamation
temporary restrictions and/or temporary suspension of water use and water
service for irrigation and other nonessential domestic purposes if he finds
that, because of drought, low precipitation, inadequate water supply, lack of
fire flow, damage to the water system or any portion thereof, or contamination
to the public water supply, that such temporary restrictions and/or temporary
suspension of services are reasonably necessary to protect the public health
and safety. Such emergency proclamation may include restricting the duration of
water use or temporarily suspending water service for irrigation and/or other
nonessential domestic purposes, and may authorize City personnel to enter upon
private lands, but not private buildings, to shut off irrigation and other
nonessential domestic uses of water from the Municipal water system. Such
emergency proclamation shall be in writing, state the reason for the
declaration, the precise restrictions and/or temporary suspension of water
service proclaimed. Such an emergency proclamation shall continue until the
Mayor finds the emergency has passed and terminates such emergency proclamation
in writing, however, no such emergency proclamation may extend for a period in
excess of thirty (30) days.
      3.   Any person violating the emergency regulations or restrictions set
forth in such resolution shall be guilty of violating this chapter and shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in section
8-1-14 of this chapter.
      4.   Prior to the enactment of any emergency water rationing by the
Common Council or declaration of an emergency proclamation by the Mayor, the
City shall first suspend irrigation of all City parks and other City grounds
and cease use of water by all City departments and personnel for nonessential
domestic purposes, such as washing of cars and equipment. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-
2010)
8-1-9: DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn on, shut off or tamper with
a corporation stop or to obtain Municipal water service without first obtaining
all required permits from the City.
   B.   1. It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful authorization
from the City, to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust, molest, meddle, or
otherwise interfere with any portion of the public water system or its
appurtenances located on either public or private property.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any substance which
may tend to contaminate the water therein or to obstruct the flow of water.
      3.   Should any damage result to the public water system or any portion
thereof, either intentionally or unintentionally, from any violation of this
chapter, the violator shall pay for all costs incurred in connection with the
repairs of said system and/or for any damages that may result from the
disturbing, damaging or otherwise tampering with or plugging of said water
system. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-10: CONNECTING PRIVATE SYSTEMS; BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Connecting Private Systems Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to connect a private water system to the Municipal system or to
interconnect a private water system to the Municipal water system or to place,
deposit or discharge, or cause to be placed, deposited or discharged, any water
into the Municipal water system not from the Municipal water system, or return
any water from the Municipal water used from the Municipal water system back to
the Municipal water system.
   B.   Backflow Prevention Devices:
      1.   Devices Required:
         a.   Irrigation Line Connections: A backflow prevent device, approved
by the Water Superintendent (WSI) and in conformance with IDAPA 58.01.08.543
and the adopted Plumbing Code, shall be installed and properly maintained on
each irrigation, sprinkler or other water line connected to a private water
service line. No person shall connect an irrigation, sprinkler or similar water
line without first installing such a backflow prevention device. No person
shall connect any such water line to a private water service line without first
receiving a permit from the City.
         b.   Fire Line Connections: A backflow prevent device, approved by the
WSI and in conformance with IDAPA 58.01.08.543, shall be installed and properly
maintained on each fire line, standpipe line, fire sprinkler line and other
nondomestic private water service lines. No person shall connect such a fire
line, standpipe line, fire sprinkler and other nondomestic private water
service lines to a Municipal water line without first installing such a
backflow prevention device. No person shall connect such a water line to a
private water service line without first receiving a permit from the City.
         c.   Existing Connections: A backflow prevent device, approved by the
WSI and in conformance with IDAPA 58.01.08.543 shall be installed and properly
maintained on each existing private irrigation line, sprinkler line, fire line,
standpipe line, fire sprinkler line or other nondomestic water lines that is
connected to a private water service line or a Municipal water line. No person
shall connect any such water line to a private water service line without first
receiving a permit from the City. The owner of the real property serviced by
said private water service line shall apply for and receive a backflow
prevention device installation permit from the City and install said backflow
prevention device on or before October 1, 2000.
      2.   Permit And Inspections Required: Each backflow prevention device
shall be installed and properly maintained through an annual inspection in
accordance with the standards of the City and IDAPA 58.01.08.543. No person
shall install or use a backflow prevention device on any line connecting to a
private service line or the Municipal water system without a backflow
prevention device installation permit issued by the City. Failure to obtain a
permit or to install any nondomestic water system as listed in subsections B1a,
B1b and B1c of this section may result in the discontinuation of water service
to the property in question. The backflow prevention device shall be inspected
as installed and approved by the City prior to use. The Common Council may
establish by resolution the permit fee. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-11: ENTRY POWERS:
The Water Superintendent or other authorized agent of the City, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall have the right to enter upon any premises
connected with any public water system at all reasonable hours for the purposes
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and/or testing to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-12: RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMITS:
Each and every permit issued under this chapter shall be with the condition
that the Water Superintendent may, for good cause, revoke the same, and the
person making such connection, or his successor in interest, shall have no
right to claim any damage in consequence of such permission being revoked.
(Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1-13: APPEALS:
Any applicant or affected person dissatisfied with any decision, ruling, order
or interpretation of the rules and regulations by the Water Superintendent
under this chapter may appeal same to the Common Council as provided in this
section. Said appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk within ten
(10) days from the date of said decision. Said appeal shall state the exact
decision appealed and the reasons therefor. If no appeal is filed within ten
(10) days as herein provided, the decision shall be final. (Ord. 2011-04, 4-28-
2011)
8-1-14: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation occurs shall be a separate offense.
In addition to the foregoing, the City may maintain an action or actions at law
or in equity, including, but not limited to, actions for injunctive relief to
restrain a violation of this chapter or to compel compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, 7-11-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. WATER USER FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Capitalization Fee
8-1A-2: Metered Service
8-1A-3: Monthly User Rates And Charges
8-1A-4: Service Call Charges
8-1A-5: Disposition Of Funds
8-1A-6: Accounts And Billing Procedures
8-1A-7: Payment Due Date; Delinquencies
8-1A-8: Water System Fund
8-1A-9: Water System Extension Costs
8-1A-1: CAPITALIZATION FEE:
   A.   In order for the City to operate a self-supporting water system and
meet its obligation under the Idaho Revenue Bond Act, Idaho Code 50-1027 et
seq., and other laws, it must collect reasonable and equitable rates, fees,
tolls and charges to recover the costs of operating, maintaining, replacing and
depreciating the existing water system and extensions thereof, by equitably
charging those persons or entities the paid for value of that portion of the
system and capacity that such new user will utilize and benefit from at that
point in time. The City commissioned licensed engineers to analyze and
calculate said costs, value and proper fee structure including monthly user
fees and a water capitalization fee as set forth herein. The water
capitalization fee shall be paid for all new connections and/or improvements
connecting to the water system resulting in an increase in the use of the
system. Said fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of a water connection
permit, and no building will be issued a certificate of occupancy until said
fee is paid.
   B.   The water system capitalization fee is hereby established, and the
initial dollar amount thereof is established per adopted resolution, per
equivalent connection or fraction thereof. The water capitalization fee
established herein may hereafter be recalculated, amended, altered and changed
by resolution of the Common Council consistent herewith.
   C.   The value of the system is determined each year by updating the
original construction cost of each major capital improvement to the system to
determine the cost to replace that improvement in that particular year. This is
accomplished by determining the annual average engineering news record
construction costs index ("ENR (CCI)") in the year that the improvements were
made and the year that the connection fee is being determined. The ENR (CCI)
for the year calculated is divided by the ENR (CCI) for the year in which the
improvements were made. The value is then multiplied by the original cost for
the improvements. The value obtained is the estimated cost to replace the
improvements at the time the connection fee is calculated. The gross value to
replace the system must be adjusted by subtracting the remaining bond principal
to obtain the new value. The remaining bond principal to be paid for bond
retirement is determined from the bond retirement schedule each year as shown
in the annual audit. The remaining bond interest is not subtracted from the
gross system value. The net system value formula is defined as follows:
Net system value = Gross system value minus remaining bond principal
   D.   The water system capitalization fee is then determined by dividing the
net system value by the design capacity of the system component, expressed in
equivalent users. The design capacity of the system component is determined by
the City Engineer based upon City policy and sound engineering practices. The
water capitalization fee formula is defined as follows:
Capitalization fee = Net system value divided by design capacity in EDUs
(equivalent density units)
   E.   It is hereby required that beginning one year following the effective
date hereof and each year thereafter, the Common Council of the City shall meet
and shall calculate the water capitalization fee monthly user charge and
connection fees to be charged by the Common Council pursuant to the foregoing
formula for that particular year. The calculation of fees shall be made
pursuant to the formula specified in this section, and shall not be based upon
any budgetary needs, except for requiring the water and sewer systems of the
City to be self-supporting. At no time shall the City establish capitalization
fees solely as a source of revenue to the system.
   F.   The Water Department for the City shall, each year, establish a
proposed estimated budget showing the anticipated costs of replacement, repair,
maintenance, and operation of the system for that year. A fund shall be
established entitled the "Water Capitalization Fund", into which all said fees
collected shall be deposited and shall be used for the purposes of replacement
of existing system facilities and equipment and not for expansion purposes or
General Fund purposes. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1A-2: METERED SERVICE:
   A.   Whenever the City shall deem it appropriate, it may require a water
user to have the water service to his/her facilities metered to more
appropriately determine the amount of service provided such user by the system.
The City may require the user to install a meter and/or meters which will
accurately measure the service provided. The Common Council may establish by
resolution the rates to be charged for such metered service. The cost of the
meter and its installation shall be borne by the user.
   B.   Monthly water users who have installed water meters in accordance with
the provisions of City ordinances and regulations, shall pay a monthly metered
water user rate as established herein and by future resolutions of the Common
Council. Such metered equivalent rates shall be a calculation based on the
total volume of annual water use divided by the total operating expenses. The
rates shall be established per adopted resolutions. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1A-3: MONTHLY USER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Purpose Of Monthly Charge:
      1.   The monthly water user charge is hereby established to cover
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement and improvement costs of the
existing system, and to provide a fund, when necessary, to pay for redemption
of bonds that have been used to finance system improvements. The water user
charge shall begin when the service connection has been inspected and approved.
The initial monthly water user fee shall be established per adopted resolution
per equivalent connection, and said fee shall be prorated for each fraction
equivalent connection.
      2.   All monthly water user rates, charges and fees to users shall assure
that each recipient of public water services pays its share of the cost
indebtedness, construction, operation, maintenance, replacement and improvement
of the public water and services provided by the City. The City shall provide
an annual notification to each user of that portion of the user charges
attributable to loan programs for water services provided.
   B.   Properties Subject To Monthly Charges: All property connected to the
public water system, whether or not actually being used, is subject to the
monthly user charges under this section.
   C.   System Of Rates And Charges Established: There is hereby established a
system of periodic service charges and fees for the use of and for service by
the public water system. The rates, charges and fees provided by this section
are hereby levied and assessed against each lot, parcel of land, building or
property as of the date the building water service line is tapped into the
public water system or same is connected to or otherwise begins receiving water
from the public water system. The water user charge system shall distribute
these costs to each user or user class in approximate proportion to such user's
potential use of water from the public water system.
   D.   User Classes And Basis For Rates:
      1.   A monthly service charge shall be paid by each lot, parcel of land,
building or property connected to the Municipal water system irrespective of
whether or not it actually receives any water from the public system. User
classes as defined in this subsection shall be, but not be limited to, metered,
nonmetered, bond rate, and circuit breaker:
         a.   Nonmetered Class Rate: The nonmetered class monthly user rate is
set to reflect the total cost of the Water Department's annual budget divided
by the total number of equivalent density units (EDUs) served by the City water
system. Until such time the City utilizes meters to calculate gallon usage for
assessments in the residential zones, all single residential units shall be
assessed as a nonmetered class, unless qualified for a bond class rate and/or
circuit breaker class rate.
         b.   Metered Class Rate: The metered class rate is a user class which
is assessed a minimum base fee, plus an established dollar per gallon
assessment for any gallon usage exceeding the minimum base fee. This class
includes all users connected to the system as provided under subsection E of
this section.
         c.   Bond User Class Rate: The bond rate class is applicable to those
properties that have had historical connections but are now not using the water
system due to the removal of the buildings or the buildings that originally
used the water system have been condemned by the City. The monthly bond rate
assessed for this class of properties shall be based on the EDU value of the
monthly outstanding bond cost, plus an administrative surcharge for billing and
accounting as set by the Council by resolution.
         d.   Circuit Breaker Class Rate: A circuit breaker rate class shall be
a reduced rate assessed to a user class who is a property owner who has been
approved by the State of Idaho Tax Commission and Blaine County Assessor's
Department to receive a reduction in assessed Property Taxes, commonly known as
a circuit breaker. The monthly circuit breaker rate shall not be less than the
current bond rate fee established by resolution.
      2.   Each user (or user class) shall be assigned a number of equivalent
users to be multiplied by a constant monthly cost factor to determine the basic
user monthly rate. Excessive users, for which the tabulated equivalent users in
subsection E of this section do not apply, shall be individually calculated as
provided in said subsection E of this section. The constant monthly cost factor
or basic user monthly rate may be set or amended by resolution of the Common
Council.
   E.   Equivalent User Schedule:
      1.   Assignment of equivalent users shall apply for one year until the
next annual user charge review. Users so indicated or not included in this
schedule shall be considered excessive users and shall be evaluated separately
as provided below. If the information indicates that the user is in excess in
comparison with the allowable limits listed above, then a surcharge shall be
levied against such users as provided below. Any of the users in the following
schedule may be classified as excessive users if information on their use
indicates a need to do so. A single user having more than one classification of
use shall be the sum of the fees. The minimum monthly water user charge shall
be one equivalent user. The number of equivalent users to be assigned each user
and/or user class shall be in accordance with the equivalent user schedule.
(Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
      2.   The number of equivalent uses to be assigned to each user and/or
user class shall be in accordance with the following equivalent user schedule:
   EQUIVALENT USER SCHEDULE
   (1.0 MINIMUM) NONMETERED RATES
Classification Equivalent User
Classification                                                Equivalent User
Apartment, duplex and trailer in trailer court (per each)     1.00
Assembly hall or lodge (no food preparation/kitchen)          1.00
Bank                                                          2.00
Bar or tavern:                                                 
 Without food preparation/kitchen (for each seat)            0.06
 With food preparation/kitchen (for each seat - minimum 2.0  0.10
  equivalent connections)
Barbershop and beauty shop (per chair)                        0.50
Bowling alley (per lane)                                      0.20
Cafe with food preparation/kitchen (per customer seating
capacity) (minimum assessment shall be 2 equivalent           0.10
connections)
Car wash, per stall (to be computed on an individual basis)    
Church                                                        2.00
Dentist, per practitioner                                     1.00
Department store                                              2.00
Doctor's office, per practitioner                             1.00
Drugstore                                                     2.00
Dwelling unit (residential house, duplex, manufactured home,  1.00
etc.)
Garage, auto body and maintenance shops                       1.00
Hospital or medical clinic:                                    
 With no beds                                                3.00
 For each bed                                                0.50
Hotel, motel, or rooming house, per room                      0.50
 Additional per unit with kitchens                           0.50
Industrial user (to be determined on an individual basis)      
Institution with permanent or temporary residents             2.00
Laundromat, up to 10 washers                                  4.00
 Each additional washer                                      0.25
Laundry, commercial (to be determined on an individual basis)  
Lodge or private club (with food preparation/kitchen)         2.00
Office, up to 20 employees                                    1.00
 For each additional employee                                0.03
Photo developing lab                                          2.00
Rest home, etc. (plus per resident)                           0.30
Restaurant, per customer seating capacity (minimum assessment 0.10
shall be 2 equivalent connections)
School, per student                                           0.10
Service station                                               1.50
Store or business, up to 20 employees                         1.00
 Each additional employee                                    0.03
Supermarket, grocery store, convenience store for each 1,500  1.00
square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof
 With butcher shop, additional                               1.50
 With bakery, additional                                     1.50
Theater                                                       2.00
Trailer court or park, first unit                             1.00
 Each additional space                                       1.00
Veterinary                                                    2.00
Light industrial uses (not otherwise listed above for each    1.05
3,000 square feet of gross floor area)
 
(Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   The equivalent connection for any other business or industry or
combinations of any above shall be determined by the City Public Works
Department in proportion to the above.
   F.   Review And Revision Of Charges: The monthly water user charges should
be reviewed annually and, if determined appropriate, updated by resolution of
the Common Council to reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance,
replacement, improvements and financing of the public water system and
facilities. Any revisions of the user charges shall be based on actual
operation, maintenance, replacement, improvements and financing expenses, and/
or on significant changes in the total number of equivalent users or total
daily demand. Resolutions establishing current monthly cost factor values shall
be provided to DEQ for their use, review, and project record.
   G.   User Request For Rate Change: Any water user who feels his user charge
is unjust and inequitable as applied to his premises may make written
application to the City Clerk requesting a review of his user charge. Any
engineering studies, flow measurements and/or testing shall be approved by the
City and/or its engineer. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1A-4: SERVICE CALL CHARGES:
The Common Council, by resolution, may establish a reasonable service charge
for service calls and service disconnections which are made at the request and/
or for the benefit of a customer. Requests for nonemergency shutoff shall be
made to the Water Superintendent a minimum of twenty four (24) hours in
advance. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1A-5: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The monthly water charges as well as all other fees and charges collected under
the authority of this article shall be initially deposited into and accounted
for through the Water System Fund which shall be part of the General Fund of
the City; said fund to be maintained as set forth in section
8-1A-8 of this article. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1A-6: ACCOUNTS AND BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Accounts shall be charged in accordance with this article, or as such
may hereinafter be revised by the City, and may be billed separately or in
conjunction with the City monthly sewer bill. A water account may only be
opened by an owner or legal representative of a parcel of real property within
the City ("owner account"). The City Clerk shall furnish to each property owner
a monthly statement of the amount due for monthly water services provided. The
failure of the property owner or any water user to receive notice or statement
will in no way affect the obligation of the user to remit monthly as required.
Each user, property owner, or recipient of the water system shall have the
opportunity to report a discrepancy of his/her monthly water rate, charges or
fees assessed as depicted on his/her monthly statement by filing a written
notice with the City Clerk. Discrepancies shall be researched to determine if
there is an error in the calculated equivalent density unit (EDU) being
assessed by the City for nonmetered accounts and for meter reading errors. If a
discrepancy is verified of an overcharge or undercharge of rates and/or fees,
an additional charge or a credit only adjustment, approved by the City Council,
shall be applied to the applicable account not to exceed six (6) months
retroactive, which shall be effective on the date such discrepancy is filed
with the City Clerk. The filing of a notice of discrepancy does not relieve the
user from paying his or her monthly user fees and charges. (Ord. 2011-04, 4-28-
2011)
   B.   As a condition for opening an owner account, the person opening the
account shall consent to all water user and other charges assessed to the real
property at the time of opening the account.
   C.   In the event the water services of the owner account are discontinued
for nonpayment, in addition to all other fees, charges and payments due the
City for restoration of service, the account holder shall bring the account to
a current status with the City Clerk.
   D.   Payment plans/agreements may be made as approved by the City Water
Clerk. Default of a payment plan/agreement shall require the City to
discontinue service, making the payment plan/agreement null and void and the
entire balance due in full immediately. The City is to provide applicable
annual notification to each user of the portion of the monthly user charges
attributed to the operation and maintenance of the water system and that
portion attributable to repayment of the bonded indebtedness for construction
of said system. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1A-7: PAYMENT DUE DATE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   All water charges and fees shall be due and payable to the Clerk by the
tenth day of the following month from date of invoice. Upon failure to pay the
same as prescribed, each user shall pay, in addition to the amount due, an
accrued interest charge in an amount set by resolution of the Common Council.
When remittances are made by mail, bills shall be deemed paid on the date of
mailing as shown by the postmark. All fees and charges assessed as set forth in
this article shall be paid when due, and thereafter, if unpaid, shall be
collected as set forth in this section.
   B.   All delinquent charges or fees, as provided by this article, not paid
within forty (40) days from date of invoice may be imposed as a judgment.
   C.   All monies collected by the Clerk under the provisions of this section
shall be paid over to the City Treasurer in the same manner as is required for
the payment of other City monies. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-14-2013)
   D.   When bills are not paid within forty (40) days from date of invoice,
the Clerk may issue a notice order to discontinue service to such delinquent
customers. In case such service is discontinued for delinquency, it shall not
be restored until the delinquency is paid, or until arrangements for payment
satisfactory to the City Clerk have been made, together with a fee set by
resolution of the Council for discontinuing and restoring service. The fee
shall be payable whenever a service trip is made for the purpose of
discontinuing service because of nonpayment even though an actual shutoff may
not actually have occurred. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-14-2013; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   The notice to discontinue service shall be mailed to the property owner
of record by U.S. mail or posted on the property. Notice shall provide an
amount due, termination date and notice that services will be discontinued. The
property owner shall have ten (10) days from the date of mailed notice or date
of property posting, whichever is more restrictive, to respond to the notice to
discontinue service.
   F.   The expense of discontinuing the water service line as well as the
expense of restoring said service back to an operable condition shall be paid
prior to restoration of service. Furthermore, it is a debt due the City and may
be recovered by legal action against the water user in addition to the fee set
forth in this section.
   G.   Nothing herein shall limit the City's right to pursue other remedies,
both in law and equity, to collect past due water fees and costs associated
with said collection. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-14-2013)
8-1A-8: WATER SYSTEM FUND:
There is hereby established a Water System Fund to be maintained by the City
Clerk in managing the fiscal affairs of the City. All fees and charges received
and collected under authority of this article shall be deposited and credited
to a special fund to be designated as the Water System Fund. The accounts of
said fund shall show all receipts and expenditures for the maintenance,
operation, upkeep, repair, replacement and improvement of the public water
system and works and any payments into a sinking fund established for the
purpose of paying the principal of and interest on the water revenue bonds of
the City which shall, from time to time, be outstanding. As provided by law,
when budgeted and appropriated, the funds and credits to the account of the
Water System Fund shall be available for the payment of the requirements for
the maintenance, operation, repairs, upkeep, replacement and improvement of the
public water system and facilities of the City and, to the extent legally
available, for payment into a sinking fund established for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the water bonds of the City which shall, from time
to time, be outstanding. The City shall provide DEQ applicable City budgets and
water system facility operational budgets for their use, review and project
record. (Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
8-1A-9: WATER SYSTEM EXTENSION COSTS:
   A.   Except when construction of water system improvements is required by
the City subdivision ordinance or by agreement with the City, whenever an
extension is made to the public water system of two thousand feet (2,000') or
less by a private person (hereinafter referred to as the "original financier")
in such a manner as to provide a water main in the public right-of-way adjacent
to private land, each property owner of such adjacent land who did not
participate in the initial construction costs of said water line (hereinafter
referred to as the "nonparticipating property owner") shall obtain from the
original financier a Certificate of Financial Contribution stating that the
original financier has received proper prorata reimbursement for the costs of
installing the water line extension from the nonparticipating property owner.
   B.   The prorata payment shall be determined by dividing the cost of the
water main extension by the front footage of all properties abutting that
portion of the public street or way in which the water line has been installed
and all property owned by the original financier along said public street or
way. A Certificate of Financial Contribution shall be obtained only by those
properties which connect a building water service line directly into the water
system extension installed by the original financier, but shall not include
subsequent water line extensions or Municipal connections thereto. The
Certificate of Financial Contribution shall be filed with the City building
inspector prior to issuance of a water connection permit by the City with
regard to nonparticipating property. For nonparticipating property abutting a
street or public way in which the water line is located, the proper prorata
compensation shall be not more than one-half (1/2) the cost of installation of
the water line, together with fixtures and appurtenances along the frontage of
the nonparticipating property.
   C.   In addition to all other approvals required, prior to construction of
any extension to the public water system, the original financier shall provide,
and the City shall approve, construction plans for said extension, and the list
of the nonparticipating properties, the cost per foot to be reimbursed by the
nonparticipating properties, together with at least three (3) bonafide
competitive bids for construction of said extension. The lowest competitive bid
shall be used as the basis for computing the proper prorata reimbursement of
nonparticipating property owners.
   D.   The original financier shall file with the City Clerk an identification
certificate stating the name, address, and telephone number of the original
financier, and costs of construction as evidenced by the lowest of the three
(3) competitive bids. Said identification certificate shall be filed within
thirty (30) days after approval of the public water system extension plans by
the City. It shall be the sole duty of the original financier to file and
maintain a current Identification Certificate with the City Clerk, and failure
to do so shall constitute a waiver and release of any Certificates of Financial
Contribution required by this section from all nonparticipating property
owners. An original financier shall provide a property owner with a Certificate
of Financial Contribution within thirty (30) days of written request and tender
in certified funds of said prorata share by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and failure to do so shall constitute a waiver and release of said
certificate by the original financier.
   E.   The initial financier shall be entitled to financial contribution from
nonparticipating property owners until the earliest of any of the following:
      1.   Reimbursement from all nonparticipating property owners fronting the
extension to the public water system.
      2.   Failure on the part of the original financier to file or maintain a
proper Identification Certificate with the City Clerk.
      3.   Full reimbursement for the cost of extension to the public water
system, excluding the initial financier's prorata share of said initial
construction costs.
      4.   A date ten (10) years after final inspection of the water line
extension by the City or commencement of use of the water line, whichever is
earlier.
      5.   Abandonment or replacement of the extension to the public water
system.
   F.   In the event that the City extends any portion of the public water
system, all property owners who receive water service availability as a result
thereof shall be deemed to benefit from said extension and shall pay to the
City the prorata share of the costs of construction of said extension whether
or not the provisions of this section have been followed.
   G.   In the event any dispute arises concerning the applicability of this
section or the amount to be paid by any nonparticipating property, the Water
Superintendent shall determine the proper amount, if any, due upon written
request of the nonparticipating property owner.
   H.   The City shall not be liable for any error or omission in issuing a
water permit without receiving a Certificate of Financial Contribution, and it
shall be the sole responsibility of the original financier to monitor and
ensure compliance by nonparticipating property owners with these provisions.
(Ord. 2010-06, 9-23-2010)
CHAPTER 2
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purposes
8-2-2: Scope
8-2-3: Compliance With Provisions
8-2-4: Definitions
8-2-5: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-2-6: Connection To System
8-2-7: Excavation Requirements
8-2-8: Service Lines
8-2-9: Construction Plans And Specifications
8-2-10: Discharges Into System
8-2-11: Interceptors, Separators And Grease Traps Required
8-2-12: Industrial Wastes
8-2-13: Special Use Agreements
8-2-14: Damaging Or Tampering With System
8-2-15: Entry Powers
8-2-16: Right To Revoke Permits
8-2-17: Appeals
8-2-18: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
8-2-1: PURPOSES:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the City, and for the purpose of controlling the use and connection to and
for providing an equitable distribution of the costs and expense of
construction, maintenance, operation, upkeep, repair, replacement and
improvement of the entire sewerage system which includes the sewer collection
system and sewage disposal facilities of the City, to charge and collect
service charges or fees upon all lots, lands, property and premises served or
benefited by the sewerage system of the City, which system and facilities
consist generally of all pipelines, conduits, catch basins, manholes,
cleanouts, sewer mains, intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, lift stations,
pumps, structures, mechanical equipment and facilities for the treatment and
disposal of sewage or sewage byproducts; and to provide for the control, use
and administration of the installation of private sewage disposal systems where
a public sanitary sewer is not available. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property and persons within
the corporate limits of the City and any special users outside of the corporate
limits of the City, including all property owned or occupied by the United
States of America, Blaine County, and the State of Idaho. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-
2010)
8-2-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
The Sewer Superintendent shall prohibit the discharge into the public sewer of
sewage that does not comply with the standards, provisions, requirements, terms
or limitations set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings given to them in this
section:
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The Sewer Superintendent, as appointed by the City, or his
duly authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (Abbreviated As BOD): The quantity of oxygen,
expressed in parts per million by weight, utilized in the biochemical oxidation
of organic matter under standard laboratory determinations made in accordance
with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
BOND RATE: A class of users having service connections to the lot but no sewer
uses on the property due to buildings having been removed, condemned or
destroyed by fire, flood or other disaster event. The monthly user rate
assessed for this class of properties shall be based on the EDU value of the
monthly outstanding bond cost, plus an administrative surcharge for billing and
accounting to be set by the Council by resolution.
BUILDING DRAIN: The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the drainage from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the buildings and conveys it to the side sewer which begins two
feet (2') outside the outer face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER LINE: The extension from the building drain to the point of
connection with the public sewer or other place of disposal, and is also
referred to as "sewer service line" or "side sewer line".
CAPITALIZATION FEE: The sewer capitalization fee is a connection charge paid by
a property that connects to the system and did not contribute to the
construction or financing of the existing system.
CHLORINE REQUIREMENT: The amount of chlorine, in parts per million by weight,
which must be added to the sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine
content, or to meet the requirements of some other objective, in accordance
with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
CIRCUIT BREAKER RATE: A reduced fee assessed to a property owner who has been
approved by the State of Idaho Tax Commission and Blaine County Assessor's
Department to receive a reduction in assessed Property Taxes, commonly known as
a circuit breaker. The monthly circuit breaker rate shall not be less than the
current bond rate fee established by resolution.
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho, its Common Council and authorized
representatives.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff (storm drainage) and
wastewater (sanitary sewage).
COMMERCIAL BUILDING: Any structure built for the support or shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind or for any
type of business or enterprise or for any other purposes not otherwise
described or covered under the definition of "dwellings" in this section.
COMMERCIAL USER: All persons not specifically classified as a domestic or an
industrial waste contributor.
DWELLINGS:
Auto Court, Motor Court, Travel Trailer Court, Motel, Hotel, Etc.: The
combination or group of two (2) or more dwelling units occupying a building
site or area under one ownership used for the purpose of furnishing transient
living accommodations.
Duplex: A building designed, built, rented, or leased for occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
Multiple-Family Dwelling Or Apartment House: Any building or portion thereof
which is designed, built, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied or
which is occupied as the home or residence of three (3) or more families or
persons living independently of each other and doing their own cooking within
the premises, which shall include townhouses or condominiums.
Single-Family Dwelling: A building designed for or occupied by one family for
living or sleeping purposes and having one kitchen or set of cooking
facilities.
Trailer House Or Mobile Home: Any vehicle used, or so constructed as to permit
its being used, as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and
constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling or
sleeping place for one or more persons.
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU): A measure where one unit is equivalent to
wastewater generated from one single-family detached housing unit. For example,
a business generating three (3) times as much wastewater as an average single-
family detached housing unit would be considered three (3) equivalent dwelling
units.
GARBAGE: The residue from the preparation and dispensing of food and from the
handling, storage, and sale of food products and produce.
GROUND GARBAGE: The residue from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried
freely in suspension under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any waste, together with such water as is present, that is
the byproduct of industrial processes including, but not limited to, food
processing or food washing wastewater.
LIVING UNIT: Any single-family home, apartment, townhouse unit, condominium
unit, mobile home or house trailer, hotel room, motel room or rooming house
room, whether or not the same shall have cooking and/or food preparation,
processing or dispensing facilities.
mg: Million gallons.
mg/L: Milligrams per liter, a weight to volume ratio; and is used for
measurement of concentration of any substance and is equivalent to parts per
million.
mgd: Million gallons per day.
MAY: Is permissive.
MONTHLY USE FEE: The charge levied on all users of the sewage system for the
purpose of repayment of City indebtedness for the construction and installation
of the system and for its efficient maintenance, operation, replacement and
improvement. In establishing such rates and charges, the City takes into
account the cost and value of the system, operation, maintenance, replacement
and improvement expenses, possible delinquencies, past due interest charges,
collection costs, proper allowance for depreciation, contingencies and any
amounts necessary to retire all bonds payable from net revenues and the reserve
required for these.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface water or groundwater developed by naturally occurring processes of
nature.
PARTS PER MILLION: A weight to weight ratio. The parts per million value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group, or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in milligrams per liter and is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity
of a solution. It shall be determined by one of the procedures outlined in
"Standard Methods".
PRIVATE SEWER DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A sewer serving one or more buildings,
residences or properties, constructed by private contract outside of the public
right-of-way and remaining under private ownership and jurisdiction and which
shall be maintained by said private owners. Private sewers shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained by the private owners to the same design,
construction, and maintenance standards as are public sewers.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the City.
The term shall also include sewers within or outside the City boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the City's sanitary or
combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with City funds. All public sewers shall be located in dedicated public rights-
of-way or easements. Public sewers shall be at least eight inches (8") in
diameter.
REPLACEMENT: Any expenditure for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement.
SANITARY SEWAGE: Wastes that are derived principally from dwellings, business
buildings, institutions, and the like, exclusive of stormwaters, surface waters
and industrial waste.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer conveying sanitary sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of the two (2), and into which stormwater, surface water, and
groundwater or unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building sewer line is connected to
the public sewer.
SEWAGE: Wastewater.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Wastewater treatment plant or other like facilities,
devices and structures.
SEWER: Any pipe or conduit used for conveying wastewater or any other waste
liquids, including stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
SEWER MAIN: The pipe laid in a street, road, alley, or easement and running
approximately parallel to the street, road, alley or easement for the
collection of wastewater from the customers, and which is owned, operated,
controlled, and maintained by the City.
SEWER SERVICE LINE: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
and is sometimes referred to as the sewer service connection or side sewer
service line.
SEWER SUPERINTENDENT: The Sewer Superintendent of the City of Bellevue.
SEWER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
or group who has connected to the sewerage system.
SEWERAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing
of sewage.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STANDARD SEWAGE: Sewage and acceptable wastes that are within specifications
regarding pH, BOD, dissolved oxygen, suspended solids and grease.
STORM DRAIN: Any pipe or conduit conveying stormwater, surface water and
groundwater drainage, but excluding sewage and industrial wastes.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
sewers.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Any water or liquid containing none of the following: free or
emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalies; substances that may impart taste
and odor or color characteristics; toxic or poisonous substances in suspension,
colloidal state or solution; and odorous or otherwise obnoxious gases.
Unpolluted water shall contain not more than thirty (30) parts per million each
of suspended solids or biochemical oxygen demand. Analytical determination
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
WASTEWATER: The water carried human, animal or household wastes in a public or
private sewer, and may include groundwater infiltration and industrial wastes.
WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM (Also Termed SEWAGE COLLECTION AND
TREATMENT SYSTEM): All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of domestic, commercial and industrial waste, and includes sewers as
well as the wastewater treatment plant.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: An assemblage of devices, structures, equipment,
and holding ponds or lagoons for treating domestic, commercial, and industrial
waste.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-5: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
Except where a public sanitary sewer is available under the provisions of this
chapter, the private sewer line shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the following provisions:
   A.   Permit Requirements: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the
City. The application for said permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
City, which the applicant shall supplement by plans, specifications, and other
information as may be deemed necessary by the City. The amount of the permit
and inspection fee will vary with each permit and shall be reasonably
established by the Sewer Superintendent at the time of the application based
upon the circumstances of each application and approved by the Common Council.
A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not be effective until the
installation is completed and there has been final inspection and approval by
the City and all other governmental agencies having jurisdiction thereover. The
City shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in
any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the City when the work is
ready for final inspection, and the City shall inspect same before any
underground works are covered.
   B.   Compliance With City And State Regulations: The type, capacities,
location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
of the rules, regulations and recommendations of the City, the South Central
Public Health Department, Idaho Department of Environmental Quality and all
other governmental agencies having jurisdiction thereover, including, but not
limited to, the State of Idaho, Department of Health and Welfare, Technical
Guidance Manual for Individual and Subsurface Sewage Disposal, which is hereby
adopted by reference.
   C.   Operation And Maintenance Of System: The owners shall operate and
maintain the private sewage disposal facility in a sanitary manner at all times
and at no expense to the City.
   D.   Connection To Public System Required: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to property served by a private sewage disposal system, a
direct connection shall be made from the building served to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tank, cesspool, or similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned in accordance with applicable
rules. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-6: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Connection Required: Every parcel of land or premises within the
boundaries of the City, improved for occupancy and occupied or used by any
person, or for a commercial, industrial, business, governmental or recreational
or other use, shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer system. The owner
of such land shall make, or cause to be made, such connection within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date hereof. All charges associated
with the laying of pipe from the home or facilities to be served by the City's
mains and all other costs incurred in connecting to said mains shall be borne
by the property owner. All such connections to the City's mains shall be
properly designed and constructed in conformity with requirements specified by
the City. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, use or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facilities intended or used
for disposal of sewage unless otherwise approved by the Council and South
Central Public Health District for areas of land located within the City limits
such as, but not limited to, lands located at the west boundary City limits
adjacent to Lower Broadford Road and the sixty one (61) acre parcel owned by
the City located at the east boundary City limits adjacent to Slaughterhouse
Road.
   B.   Permit To Connect; Capacity Of System:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to uncover, make any opening into, use,
install, connect to, repair or alter any portion of the public sewer system or
any portion or appurtenance thereof or to tap into or connect to any sanitary
sewer line, whether lateral, main, or interceptor, without having first
obtained from the City a permit therefor.
      2.   An application shall include an application form provided by the
City, plans of the proposed work, payment of the permit fee established by
resolution of the Common Council, payment of all other applicable fees, and
posting a bond for street restoration, if applicable.
      3.   Except for existing structures, no sewer permit shall be issued to
any person or persons, and no waste or sewage line shall be connected or hooked
up to the City sewer system, until a valid building construction permit for the
building or structure for which a sewer connection or hookup is contemplated
shall have been issued by the City, and a copy thereof is submitted to and
filed with the Sewer Superintendent.
      4.   If, in the judgment and discretion of the Common Council, sewage
treatment facilities and/or its sewage collection lines have reached capacity,
or the granting of permits for further and additional sewage connections and
hookups to the City Wastewater Collection and Treatment System results in an
over capacity of the system or any significant portion thereof, the City may
refuse to accept applications for, or issuance of, any sewer permits for
connections to said system until wastewater collection and treatment shall have
adequate and satisfactory capacity to receive, handle, treat and dispose of the
City's sewage.
   C.   Utility Payment Agreement Required: A connection of any kind to a
public sewer line shall not be made nor shall any sewage be permitted to flow
through such connection except pursuant to an approved utility payment
application, signed by the property owner or legal representative, and issued
by the City as required under this chapter.
   D.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee as established
per adopted resolution for a residential or commercial sewer service shall be
paid to the City at the time the application for same is filed. The amount of
the permit and inspection fee for an industrial waste sewer service will vary
with each permit and shall be reasonably established by the Sewer
Superintendent at the time of the application based upon the circumstances of
each application.
   E.   Plumber Requirements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person not having a current and valid
State of Idaho and City plumber's license to connect to, repair, alter or work
on any public sewer line.
      2.   No person without a valid State plumber permit shall make any
connection with, opening into, or otherwise alter any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof, except for work done by the City Sewer Department and
personnel.
   F.   Workmanship: The City may reject any material or workmanship for cause,
and upon such order, rejected material shall be removed and replaced with
approved material. Disapproved workmanship shall cause the removal and
replacement of all materials involved, including appurtenances, excavation,
backfilling and other items.
   G.   Recreational Vehicles (RVs): It shall be unlawful to connect an RV into
the public sewer system. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06, 7-30-
2019)
8-2-7: EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: The existence of a sewer connection permit shall not
permit any work for which the street excavation permit is required by the City.
   B.   Safety Precautions: All excavations for building sewer installation
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard.
   C.   Restoration Of Excavation Area: Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in
accordance with the street standards ordinance at the applicant's expense.
(Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-8: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Independent Lines Required; Exceptions:
      1.   Independent Lines Required:
         a.   A separate and independent sewer service line shall be installed
to each tract or parcel of land.
         b.   The sewer service line shall be on the same property as the unit
or buildings being served thereby and shall not cross another parcel of real
property without a written permit therefor being issued by the Sewer
Superintendent to ensure the adequacy of the design, location, and recorded
easement therefor.
         c.   After the effective date hereof, a separate and independent sewer
service line shall be provided for every new parcel or tract of land connecting
to the sanitary sewer system of the City.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   Separate sewer service lines are not required for uses that are
on a single parcel or tract of land such as, but not limited to, a recreational
vehicle park/court, mobile home court/park, commercial or residential
condominium, multi-unit nonresidential complex, multiple-family dwelling/
apartment, accessory dwelling unit, hotel/motel, or each cabin in a cabin
court.
         b.   Where sewer service is now provided through one independent sewer
service line to several buildings on more than one parcel or tract of land,
upon written application of the property owner, the City may approve in
writing, for a stated and limited period of time, subject to reasonable
conditions, the acceptance of sewage from said line until separate sewer
service lines are provided at the owner's expense. Where more than one dwelling
is served from one such service line, the established monthly rate shall be
charged for each building or use served in the same manner as if each did, in
fact, have an individual sewer service line.
   B.   Installation Of Lines:
      1.   When a sewer connection permit has been granted, the sewer tap at
the sewer main and the line from the sewer main to the property line shall be
installed by the City at the applicant's expense, and the sewer service line
from the property line to the building shall be installed and maintained by and
at the expense of the owner of the building served.
      2.   All sewer service lines within any public rights-of-way or easements
shall be constructed, inspected before the work is covered, tested, and
certified as being in conformance with the City Standard Drawings and Standard
Specifications governing the construction of sewer service lines. All costs and
expenses incident to the installation and/or connection of the building sewer
service line and/or service connection, as well as all costs and expenses for
repairs and replacements of any damaged or defective building sewer service
lines and/or service connections occurring after inspection and approval by the
City Sewer Superintendent, shall be borne by the property owner receiving
service therefrom. The property owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned to the public sewer system
as a result of the installation of the building sewer service line, the making
of the service connection and/or the repair and replacement of the same.
      3.   If the property owner neglects, fails or refuses to correct, repair
or replace any such damage or defect within thirty (30) days after receiving
written notice to correct issued by the City, the City may correct the same at
the costs and expense of the property owner. Said written notice to correct
shall be served upon any such property owner personally, or by registered or
certified mail, directed to his or her last known post office address, and
should the building sewer line or connection in question run from a living
unit, such written notice to correct shall also be served on the occupant
thereof personally, or by registered or certified mail, directed to his or her
last known post office address, and if such occupant is absent therefrom, by
posting such notice in a conspicuous place at the entrance of the building.
   C.   Maintenance, Repair And Extension Of Lines:
      1.   All sewer users shall keep their individual sewer service lines in
good repair and condition so that said lines shall function properly and shall
not allow detectible amounts of groundwater to enter into the sewer system.
      2.   a. When any sewer service line or private sewer connected to any
public sewer becomes obstructed, broken or out of order from the tap on the
sewer main to the building served, the owner of the building served shall
immediately repair or cause to be repaired the same at the owner's expense.
         b.   No person shall construct, relay, repair, or extend any side
sewer or private sewer until the person doing the work has obtained the
appropriate sewer permit.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any private sewer
or side sewer beyond the limits of the property for which a permit has been
given without obtaining a new permit for the desired extension.
         d.   A permit and inspection fee for residential or commercial sewer
work shall be established by resolution of the Common Council and paid to the
City at the time the application for same is filed. The amount of the permit
and inspection fee for an industrial waste sewer service will vary with each
permit and shall be reasonably established by the Sewer Superintendent at the
time of the application based upon the circumstances of each application. (Ord.
2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-9: CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All construction or reconstruction of public or private sewer service
lines shall be in accordance with the following, including subsequent
amendments thereto, which are hereby adopted: the City Standard Drawings and
Specifications, the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC),
Idaho Wastewater Rules (IDAPA 58.01.16), the Plumbing Code and such other
specifications and design criteria as may hereafter be adopted by the Common
Council. One copy of each shall be on file with the City Clerk for public
inspection during regular business hours, subject to inspection and approval by
the City prior to use.
   B.   Plan and profile drawings shall be prepared for all new sewer mains
(whether public or private) and for all sanitary sewer extensions,
reconstructions, or renovations, and all such plan and profile drawings must be
reviewed and approved in writing by an approved City Engineer and the
applicable agencies before any construction work on said sewer line begins.
   C.   The holder of any permit for construction of public or private sewer
improvements shall file record drawings with the City Sewer Superintendent
prior to final inspection. Record drawings of sewer line plans shall be
prepared by a professional engineer and shall be provided to the City prior to
occupancy. Record plans shall include an acknowledgement thereon signed by the
registered professional engineer in charge of the work that the record drawings
of the sewer lines are true and correct, and that the registered professional
engineer has observed the construction of the sewer line installation, and that
to the best of his knowledge, the materials and installation of same were all
done in conformance with the City Standard Specifications for the Construction
of Sanitary Sewers. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-10: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or discharge,
or cause to be to be placed, deposited or discharged, any stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or other
unpolluted water to any sanitary sewer without having received prior written
permission from the Sewer Superintendent to take such action.
      2.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall place, deposit or
discharge, or cause to be placed, deposited or discharged, any of the following
described substances or wastewater containing same to the Wastewater Collection
and Treatment System:
         a.   Any gasoline, fuel oil or flammable or explosive liquid, solid or
gas, or any solid, liquid, or gas which may, by themselves or by interaction
with other substances, cause fire or explosive hazards or in any other way be
injurious to persons, property or the operation of the Wastewater Collection
and Treatment System.
         b.   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or gases which, either
singly or by interaction with other substances, are capable of creating a
public nuisance or hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their
maintenance or repair.
         c.   Any solids, greases, waxes, slurries, or viscous material of such
character or in such quantity that it, in the opinion of the Sewer
Superintendent, may cause an obstruction to the flow in the sewer, or otherwise
interfere with the proper functioning of the Wastewater Collection and
Treatment System.
         d.   Any toxic substance, chemical elements, or compounds in
quantities sufficient to impair the operation or efficiency of the wastewater
treatment facilities and cause the effluent thereof to exceed the allowable
loading limits per IDEQ Wastewater Land Application Permit (WLAP).
         e.   Any liquids having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the Wastewater Collection and Treatment
System.
         f.   Any radioactive isotopes unless found to be naturally occurring.
         g.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature greater than one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F).
         h.   Any garbage that has not been properly ground.
         i.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair or other material
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
proper operation of the Wastewater Collection and Treatment System.
         j.   Any liquid from roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause unusual concentrations of inert
suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries,
and lime residues); or dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium
chloride and sodium sulfate); or excessive discoloration (such as, but not
limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions); or unusual BOD,
biochemical oxygen demand, or disinfection requirements in such quantities as
to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works; or unusual
volume of flow or concentration of wastes.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the groundwater and land applications sites.
         m.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred five milligrams per liter (105 mg/
L) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred forty
degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (0°C and 65°C).
         n.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         o.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting any excessive
disinfection requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City for such materials.
         p.   Any substance, material or waste which, in the reasonable opinion
of the City, can harm the sewerage collection and treatment system or sewage
treatment process, or any portion or part thereof, or may have an adverse
effect on any permit or license granted to the City therefor, or can otherwise
endanger health, safety and welfare or constitute a nuisance.
   B.   Special Discharges:
      1.   In addition to all other permits and approvals required, prior
written approval of the Sewer Superintendent shall be obtained prior to any
person discharging or causing the discharge into the public sewers of any
waters or wastes having:
         a.   A concentration of more than three hundred thirty (330) parts per
million of suspended solids in wastewater per day.
         b.   A concentration of more than two hundred eighty six (286) parts
per million of BOD.
         c.   An average flow of six thousand five hundred (6,500) gallons per
month or more.
         d.   Any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection A of this section.
      2.   In such instances which, in the judgment of the City, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or land
application and ground, or which otherwise creates a hazard to life or
constitutes a public nuisance, the City may:
         a.   Reject the waste;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of article A of this chapter.
      3.   If the City permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the City and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-11: INTERCEPTORS, SEPARATORS AND GREASE TRAPS REQUIRED:
   A.   1. Grease traps shall be required to prevent the discharge of oil,
grease, sand and other substances harmful or hazardous to the building drainage
system, the public sewer or the sewage treatment plant or processes. Each and
every restaurant, hotel, boarding house, food service establishment and similar
grease producing business or use located within a building existing on the
effective date hereof shall, in the waste line leading from sinks, dishwashers
and other fixtures or equipment where grease may be introduced into the
sewerage system, install and properly maintain applicable interceptors,
separators and grease traps to remove oil, grease, sand and other substances
harmful or hazardous to the building drainage system, the public sewer or the
sewage treatment plant or processes prior to hooking into the sewer system in
accordance with the Plumbing Code, including future amendments and editions. A
food service establishment shall mean any room, building or structure used or
intended for use or operated for the preparation, manufacturing, and cooking of
food for sale including, but not limited to, restaurants, cafes, cafeterias,
bakeries, or similar places, and excluding therefrom private clubs and
fraternal and church organizations which do not serve or prepare meals more
than once a week.
      2.   Under the Plumbing Code, each dishwasher shall be calculated as one
fixture, and the first kitchen sink shall be calculated as one fixture, and
each sink thereafter where grease may be introduced into the sewerage system
shall be calculated as one fixture. Installation of each grease trap or
interceptor shall be inspected and approved by the authorized representative of
the City prior to connection of same to the Municipal sewerage system.
      3.   A grease trap is not required for individual dwelling units or for
any private living quarters.
   B.   Interceptors and separators shall be provided to prevent the discharge
of oil, grease, sand and other substances harmful or hazardous to the building
drainage system, the public sewer, or the sewage treatment plant or processes.
Oil and sand interceptors or other necessary removal facilities shall be
installed in each and every service station, automobile repair garage and
similar business, use or premises when, in the opinion of the Sewer
Superintendent, the same are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing high concentrations of blood, fruit, vegetable, or grain liquors,
milk wastes, flammable wastes, oil, sand, or other harmful ingredients. All
interceptors or removal facilities shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Sewer Superintendent and shall be located to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection, and shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with the Plumbing Code, including future amendments and editions.
Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by
the owner and/or occupant, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation
at all times. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-12: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
   A.   Permit Requirements: No industrial waste shall be placed, deposited or
discharged into the public sewer system without first having obtained a written
permit to do so from the City Sewer Superintendent. Each person or firm
desiring to make a connection to the public sewer for the purpose of
discharging industrial wastes thereto shall prepare and file with the City
Sewer Superintendent an application accompanied by a report that shall include
actual or predicted data relating to the quantity and characteristics of the
waste to be discharged. Private treatment facilities may be required or
authorized by the City; provided, that there is compliance with all Federal,
State, and local laws and regulations.
   B.   User Fees And Charges:
      1.   Industrial waste fees and charges may be based upon the amount of
flow, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and suspended solids, or any combination
thereof, as may be recommended by the City Sewer Superintendent, and shall be
approved by the Common Council.
      2.   The sewage collection and treatment charges for industrial waste
shall completely pay for all collection and treatment costs associated with
said wastes.
   C.   Control Manhole: When required by the City, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the City. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 2010-
07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-13: SPECIAL USE AGREEMENTS:
   A.   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting or requiring any special agreement or arrangement between the City
and any person or organization whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength
or character may be admitted to the Wastewater Collection and Treatment System
either before or after pretreatment; provided, that there is no impairment of
the functioning of the wastewater treatment system by reason of the admission
of such wastes, and no extra costs are incurred by the City without recompense
by said person or organization.
   B.   Likewise, the City may permit the use of the sewerage works by
individual properties that are partially or entirely outside the corporate
limits of the City. Each request for such service must be a written contract
approved by the Common Council. In addition, all terms and provisions of said
contract and all regulations of this chapter must be complied with by such
special sewer user. The sewer user will be considered a special user as long as
the property being served remains outside the corporate limits of the City. In
addition to all other charges and fees as are required to be paid by any sewer
user, the special sewer user shall be charged a monthly user charge that will
be not less than double the rate of a similar user who is entirely within the
corporate limits of the City, unless the applicable outside corporate City
limit rate is adjusted by the Council. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-14: DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful authorization from
the City, to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust, molest, meddle, or otherwise
interfere with any portion of the City Wastewater Collection and Treatment
System or its appurtenances located on either public or private property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any substance which may
tend to obstruct the flow of the sewer in any sewer opening.
   C.   Should any damage result, either intentionally or unintentionally, from
handling or otherwise tampering with or plugging the sewer system, the violator
shall pay for all costs incurred in connection with the repairs of the system
and/or for any damages that may result from the disturbing, damaging or
otherwise tampering with or plugging of the sewer system. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-
2010)
8-2-15: ENTRY POWERS:
The Sewer Superintendent or other authorized agent of the City, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall have the right to enter upon any premises
connected with any public sewer at all reasonable hours for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and/or testing to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-16: RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMITS:
Each and every permit issued under this chapter shall be with the condition
that the Sewer Superintendent may, for good cause, revoke the same, and the
person making such connection, or his successor in interest, shall have no
right to claim any damage in consequence of such permission being revoked.
(Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2-17: APPEALS:
Any applicant or affected person dissatisfied with any decision, ruling, order
or interpretation of the rules and regulations by the Sewer Superintendent
under this chapter may appeal same to the Common Council as provided in this
section. Said appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk within ten
(10) days from the date of the decision. The appeal shall state the exact
decision appealed and the reasons therefor. If no appeal is filed within ten
(10) days as herein provided, the decision shall be final. (Ord. 2011-03, 4-28-
2011)
8-2-18: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day said violation occurs shall be a separate offense.
In addition to the foregoing, the City may maintain an action or actions at law
or in equity, including, but not limited to, actions for injunctive relief to
restrain a violation of this chapter or to compel compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-02, 7-11-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. SEWER USER FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Sewer Capitalization Fee
8-2A-2: Metered Service
8-2A-3: Monthly User Rates And Charges
8-2A-4: Service Call Charges
8-2A-5: Disposition Of Funds
8-2A-6: Accounts And Billing Procedures
8-2A-7: Payment Due Date; Delinquencies
8-2A-8: Sewage Facilities Fund
8-2A-9: Sewer System Extension Costs
8-2A-1: SEWER CAPITALIZATION FEE:
   A.   In order for the City to operate a self-supporting sewer system and
meet its obligation under the Idaho Revenue Bond Act, Idaho Code 50-1027 et
seq., and other laws, it must collect reasonable and equitable rates, fees,
tolls and charges to recover the costs of operating, maintaining, replacing and
depreciating the existing sewer system and extensions thereof, by equitably
charging those persons or entities the paid for value of that portion of the
system and capacity that such new user will utilize and benefit from at that
point in time. The City commissioned licensed engineers to analyze and
calculate said costs, value and proper fee structure including monthly user
fees and a sewer capitalization fee as set forth herein. The sewer
capitalization fee shall be paid for all new connections and/or improvements
connecting to the sewer system resulting in an increase in the use of the
wastewater collection and treatment system. Said fee shall be paid prior to the
issuance of a sewer connection permit, and no building will be issued a
certificate of occupancy until the fee is paid.
   B.   The sewer system capitalization fee is hereby established, and the
initial dollar amount thereof is established per adopted resolution, per
equivalent connection or fraction thereof. The sewer capitalization fee
established herein may hereafter be recalculated, amended, altered and changed
by resolution of the Common Council consistent herewith.
   C.   The value of the system is determined each year by updating the
original construction cost of each major capital improvement to the system to
determine the cost to replace that improvement in that particular year. This is
accomplished by determining the annual average engineering news record
construction costs index ("ENR (CCI)") in the year that the improvements were
made and the year that the connection fee is being determined. The ENR (CCI)
for the year calculated is divided by the ENR (CCI) for the year in which the
improvements were made. The value is then multiplied by the original cost for
the improvements. The value obtained is the estimated cost to replace the
improvements at the time the connection fee is calculated. The gross value to
replace the system must be adjusted by subtracting the remaining bond principal
to obtain the new value. The remaining bond principal to be paid for bond
retirement is determined from the bond retirement schedule each year as shown
in the annual audit. The remaining bond interest is not subtracted from gross
system value. The net system value formula is defined as follows:
Net system value = Gross system value minus remaining bond principal
   D.   The sewer system capitalization fee is then determined by dividing the
net system value by the design capacity of the system component expressed in
equivalent users. The design capacity of the system component is determined by
the City Engineer based upon City policy and sound engineering practices. The
sewer capitalization fee formula is defined as follows:
Capitalization fee = Net system value divided by design capacity in EDUs
(equivalent density units)
   E.   It is hereby required that beginning one year following the effective
date hereof and each year thereafter, the Common Council should meet and shall
calculate the sewer capitalization fee monthly user charge and connection fees
to be charged by the Common Council pursuant to the foregoing formula for that
particular year. The calculation of fees shall be made pursuant to the formula
specified in this section, and shall not be based upon any budgetary needs
except for requiring the water and sewer systems of the City to be self-
supporting. At no time shall the City establish capitalization fees solely as a
source of revenue to the system.
   F.   The Sewer Department for the City shall, each year, establish a
proposed estimated budget showing the anticipated costs of replacement, repair,
maintenance, and operation of the system for that year. A fund shall be
established entitled the "Sewer Capitalization Fund", into which all said fees
collected shall be deposited and shall be used for the purposes of replacement
of existing system facilities and equipment and not for expansion purposes or
General Fund purposes. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2A-2: METERED SERVICE:
All new construction with a building permit value exceeding twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00), excluding single-family dwellings and approved accessory
dwelling units, shall be required to install a water meter. Whenever the City
shall deem it appropriate and in the best interests of the City and its
citizens to require a user to have the sewer service to his facilities metered
to more appropriately determine the amount of sewer service provided such user
of the system, the City may require the user to install a sewer meter and/or
meters which will accurately measure the service provided; and the City may
further establish by resolution the rates to be charged for such service as
will properly pay the fair share of the services provided such user. The cost
of the sewer meter and its installation shall be borne by the user. (Ord. 2010-
07, 9-23-2010)
8-2A-3: MONTHLY USER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Purpose Of Monthly Charge:
      1.   The monthly sewer user fee is hereby established to cover operation,
maintenance, repair, replacement and improvement costs of the existing system,
and to provide a fund, when necessary, to pay for redemption of bonds that have
been used to finance system improvements, all as a part of the City's
responsibility to provide adequate sanitary sewerage facilities for the City.
The sewer user fee shall begin when the service connection has been inspected
and approved. The initial monthly service fee is hereby established per adopted
resolution per month per equivalent connection, and said fee shall be prorated
for each fraction equivalent connection. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
      2.   All monthly sewer rates or charges and fees to users shall assure
that each recipient of wastewater collection and treatment services will
reasonably pay its proportionate share of the cost indebtedness, construction,
operation, maintenance, replacement and improvement of the sewerage collection
and treatment system and services provided by the City.
   B.   System Of Rates And Charges Established:
      1.   There is hereby established a system of periodic service charges and
fees for the use of, and for service rendered by, the sewerage works of the
City. The rates, charges and fees provided by this subsection are hereby levied
and assessed against each lot, parcel of land, building or property as of the
date the building sewer line is tapped into the public sewer system, having any
connection with the sanitary sewerage works of the City, or otherwise
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastewater, or other liquids directly
into the sanitary sewerage works of the City, or otherwise connected to
discharge sanitary sewage, industrial wastewater, or other liquids directly
into the sanitary sewerage works of the City.
      2.   This is a user fee system for a small community which follows model
number one in appendix B of the Federal Register, dated September 27, 1978. A
sewer user fee shall be levied on all users of the sewage collection and
treatment facilities to cover the actual or estimated payment of indebtedness,
cost of construction, operation, maintenance, replacement, improvement and
financing of the wastewater collection and treatment system. The sewer user fee
system shall distribute these costs to each user or user class in approximate
portion to such user's contribution to the total wastewater load of such
systems and facilities. The City shall provide an annual notification to each
user of that portion of the user charges attributable to the SRF (Sewer
Revolving Fund) loan program for wastewater treatment service. Each user,
property owner, and recipient of the wastewater collection and treatment
services shall have not more than six (6) months to report any discrepancy of
his or her monthly sewer rate, charges or fees assessed. Discrepancies shall be
researched to determine if there is an error in the calculated equivalent
density unit (EDU) being assessed by the City. If a discrepancy is verified of
an overcharge of rates and/or fees has occurred, a credit only adjustment
approved by the City Council shall be applied to the applicable account not to
exceed six (6) months retroactive which shall be effective on the date such
discrepancy is reported to the City Clerk. (Ord. 2011-03, 4-28-2011)
   C.   User Classes And Basis For Rates:
      1.   The sewer user fee for each user is based on the user's approximate
contribution to the total wastewater loading of the treatment facilities in
comparison to a standard equivalent user as defined below. User classes as
defined in this subsection shall be, but are not limited to, metered,
nonmetered, bond rate, and circuit breaker:
         a.   Nonmetered Class Rate: This monthly user rate is set to reflect
the total cost of the Sewer Department's annual budget divided by the total
number of equivalent density units (EDUs) served by the City sewer system.
Until such time the City utilizes meters to calculate gallon usage for
assessments in the residential zones, all single residential units shall be
assessed as a nonmetered class, unless qualified for a bond rate class and/or
circuit breaker class rate.
         b.   Metered Class Rate: The metered class rate is a user class that
is assessed a minimum base fee, plus an established dollar per gallon
assessment for any gallons exceeding the minimum base fee. This class includes
all users connected to the system as provided under this section.
         c.   Bond User Class Rate: The bond rate class is applicable to those
properties that have had historical connections but are now not using the sewer
system due to the removal of the buildings or the buildings having been
condemned by the City that originally contributed wastewater to the system. The
monthly bond rate assessed for this class of properties shall be based on the
EDU value of the monthly outstanding bond cost, plus an administrative
surcharge for billing and accounting as set by the Council by resolution.
         d.   Circuit Breaker Class Rate: A circuit breaker rate class shall be
a reduced rate assessed to a user class who is a property owner who has been
approved by the State of Idaho Tax Commission and Blaine County Assessor's
Department to receive a reduction in assessed Property Taxes, commonly known as
a circuit breaker. The monthly circuit breaker rate shall not be less than the
current bond rate fee established by resolution.
      2.   Each user (or user class) shall be assigned a number of equivalent
users to be multiplied by a constant monthly cost factor to determine the basic
user monthly rate. Excessive users contributing sewage of excessive flow and/or
strength, for which the tabulated equivalent users in subsection D of this
section do not apply, shall be individually calculated as provided in said
subsection D of this section. The constant monthly cost factor or basic user
monthly rate may be set or amended by resolution of the Common Council.
Resolutions establishing current monthly cost factor values shall be provided
to DEQ's SRF (Sewer Revolving Fund) Loan Project Officer for his/her use,
review and project record. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
   D.   Equivalent User Schedule: Assignment of equivalent users shall apply
for one year until the next annual user charge review. Users so indicated or
not included in this schedule shall be considered excessive users and shall be
evaluated separately as provided below. If the information indicates that the
strength of sewage contributed by any of the following users is in excess in
comparison with the allowable limits listed in this section, then a surcharge
shall be levied against such users as provided in subsection E of this section.
Any of the users in the following schedule may be classified as excessive users
if information on their contribution flow and/or strength indicates a need to
do so. A single user having more than one classification of use shall be the
sum of the fees. The minimum monthly sewer user charge shall be one equivalent
user. The number of equivalent users to be assigned each user and/or user class
shall be in accordance with the following equivalent user schedule:
   EQUIVALENT USER SCHEDULE
   (1.0 MINIMUM) NONMETERED RATES
Classification Equivalent User
Classification                                                Equivalent User
Apartment, duplex and trailer in trailer court (per each)     1.00
Assembly hall or lodge (no food preparation/kitchen)          1.00
Bank                                                          2.00
Bar or tavern:                                                 
 Without food preparation/kitchen (for each seat)            0.06
 With food preparation/kitchen (for each seat - minimum 2.0  0.10
  equivalent connections)
Barbershop and beauty shop (per chair)                        0.50
Bowling alley (per lane)                                      0.20
Cafe with food preparation/kitchen (per customer seating
capacity) (minimum assessment shall be 2 equivalent           0.10
connections)
Car wash, per stall (to be computed on an individual basis)    
Church                                                        2.00
Dentist, per practitioner                                     1.00
Department store                                              2.00
Doctor's office, per practitioner                             1.00
Drugstore                                                     2.00
Dwelling unit (residential-house, duplex, manufactured home,  1.00
etc.)
Garage, auto body and maintenance shops                       1.00
Hospital or medical clinic:                                    
 With no beds                                                3.00
 For each bed                                                0.50
Hotel, motel, or rooming house, per room                      0.20
 Additional per unit with kitchens                           0.50
Industrial user (to be determined on an individual basis)      
Institution with permanent or temporary residents             2.00
Laundromat, up to 10 washers                                  4.00
 Each additional washer                                      0.25
Laundry, commercial (to be determined on an individual basis)  
Lodge or private club (with food preparation/kitchen)         2.00
Office, up to 20 employees                                    1.00
 For each additional employee                                0.03
Photo developing lab                                          2.00
Rest home, etc. (plus per resident)                           0.30
Restaurant, per customer seating capacity (minimum assessment 0.10
shall be 2 equivalent connections)
School, per student                                           0.10
Service station                                               1.50
Store or business, up to 20 employees                         1.00
 Each additional employee                                    0.03
Supermarket, grocery store, convenience store for each 1,500  1.00
square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof
 With butcher shop additional                                1.50
 With bakery additional                                      1.50
Theater                                                       2.00
Trailer court or park, first unit                             1.00
 Each additional space                                       1.00
Veterinary                                                    2.00
Light industrial uses (not otherwise listed above for each    1.05
3,000 square feet of gross floor area)
 
(Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010; amd. Ord. 2016-02, 7-11-2016; 2018 Code)
   E.   Surcharge For Excessive Strength:
      1.   All users who contribute wastewater of excessive strength shall have
a sampling manhole on the user site. When any user contributes wastewater
having an average BOD and/or suspended solids loading in excess of the
designated allowable limits hereinafter designated, a surcharge shall be levied
against such user. Said surcharge shall be based on the average degree of
excessive loading, and applied as a percentage of the basic user charge as
provided in the above schedule, or otherwise for special users. The BOD and
suspended solids loadings shall be determined for estimates or tests made by
City officials or its engineer. The user's monthly surcharge shall be computed
by use of the following equation:
US = [((b/B)-1) + (s/S)-1)] x (UMC), where
"US" represents the user's monthly surcharge to be added to the basic user's
monthly charge;
"UMC" represents the basic user's monthly charge (for treatment only) and shall
not be less than 1.0;
"b" represents the average BOD loading above which is a user's wastewater
contribution, expressed in parts per million;
"B" represents the allowable limit of BOD loading above which a user's
surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 286 parts per million;
"s" represents the average suspended solids loading of the user's wastewater
contribution, expressed in parts per million; and
"S" represents the allowable limit of suspended solids loading above which a
user's surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 330 parts per
million.
      2.   A copy of the list of users surcharged, the characteristics of their
sewage, and the surcharge for each shall be kept on file at all times in the
Office of the City Clerk.
   F.   Excessive Volume Users:
      1.   If, in addition to excessive strength, a user is determined to add
flow to the wastewater treatment facilities in excess of six thousand five
hundred (6,500) gallons per month, the formula in subsection E of this section
shall be increased by a factor of total flow divided by six thousand five
hundred (6,500) gallons per month multiplied by one equivalent user. In order
to determine the flow of this excessive user, the City may monitor sewage and
water flow in order to determine total flow. The value of UMC used in the
formula in subsection E of this section will be the same value as assigned
single dwelling units.
      2.   A copy of the list of excessive users, the characteristics of their
sewage, and the excessive user's monthly charge shall be kept on file at all
times in the Office of the City Clerk.
   G.   Review And Revisions Of Charges: The sewer user charges shall, at a
minimum, be reviewed annually and, if determined appropriate, updated by
resolution of the City to reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance,
replacement, improvement and financing of the sewage collection and treatment
facilities. Any revisions of the user charges shall be based on actual
operation, maintenance, replacement, improvement and financing expenses, and/or
on significant changes in the total number of equivalent users, the total daily
flow, the total daily BOD, and/or the total daily suspended solids. All changes
in user charges applicable to this article shall be computed by the methods
outlined herein.
   H.   User Request For Rate Change: Any sewer user who feels his user charge
is unjust and inequitable as applied to his premises may make written
application to the City requesting a review of his user charge. Said written
request shall, where necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow and
strength of his wastewater in comparison with the values upon which the charge
is based, including how the measurements or estimates were made. Any flow
measurements and/or testing of wastewater shall be approved in detail by the
City and/or its engineer. Review of the request by the City shall determine if
it is substantiated or not, including recommended further study of the matter
for the City and/or user by a registered professional engineer. (Ord. 2010-07,
9-23-2010)
8-2A-4: SERVICE CALL CHARGES:
The Council, by resolution, may establish a reasonable service charge for
service calls which are made at the request and/or for the benefit of a
customer. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2A-5: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The monthly sewer fee charges as well as all other fees collected under the
authority of this article shall be initially deposited into and accounted for
through the Sewage Facilities Fund. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2A-6: ACCOUNTS AND BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Accounts shall be charged in accordance with this article or as such
may hereinafter be revised by the City and may be billed separately or in
conjunction with the City monthly water bill. A sewer account may only be
opened by an owner or legal representative of a parcel of real property within
the City ("owner account"). The City Clerk shall furnish to each property owner
a monthly statement of the amount due for monthly sewer services provided. The
failure of the property owner or any water user to receive notice or statement
will in no way affect the obligation of the user to remit monthly as required.
   B.   As a condition for opening an owner account, the person opening the
account shall consent to all sewer user and other charges assessed to the real
property at the time of opening the account.
   C.   In the event the sewer services of the owner account are discontinued
for nonpayment, in addition to all other fees, charges and payments due the
City for restoration of service, the account holder shall bring the account to
a current status with the City Clerk.
   D.   Payment plans/agreements may be made as approved by the City Sewer
Clerk. Default of a payment plan/agreement shall require the City to
discontinue service, making the payment plan/agreement null and void and the
entire balance due in full immediately. The City is to provide applicable
annual notification to each user of the portion of the monthly user charges
attributed to the operation and maintenance of the sewer system and that
portion attributable to repayment of the bonded indebtedness for construction
of said system. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2A-7: PAYMENT DUE DATE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   All sewer charges and fees shall be due and payable to the Clerk on the
tenth day of the following month from date of invoice. Upon failure to pay the
same, as prescribed, each user shall pay, in addition to the amount due, an
accrued interest charge in an amount set by resolution of the Common Council.
When remittances are made by mail, bills shall be deemed paid on the date of
mailing as shown by the postmark. All fees and charges assessed as set forth in
this article shall be paid when due and thereafter, if unpaid, shall be
collected as set forth in this section.
   B.   All delinquent charges or fees, as provided by this article, not paid
within forty (40) days from date of invoice may be imposed as a judgment.
   C.   All monies collected by the Clerk under the provisions of this section
shall be paid over to the City Treasurer in the same manner as is required for
the payment of other City monies. (Ord. 2013-02, 3-14-2013)
   D.   When bills are not paid within forty (40) days from date of invoice,
the Clerk may issue a notice order to discontinue service to such delinquent
customers. In case such service is discontinued for delinquency, it shall not
be restored until the delinquency is paid, or until arrangements for payment
satisfactory to the City Clerk have been made, together with a fee set by
resolution of the Council for discontinuing and restoring service. The fee
shall be payable whenever a service trip is made for the purpose of
discontinuing service because of nonpayment even though an actual shutoff may
not actually have occurred. (Ord. 2013-02, 3-14-2013; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   The notice to discontinue service shall be mailed to the property owner
of record by U.S. mail or posted on the property. Notice shall provide an
amount due, termination date and notice that services will be discontinued. The
property owner shall have ten (10) days from the date of mailed notice or date
of property posting, whichever is more restrictive, to respond to the notice to
discontinue service.
   F.   The expense of discontinuing the sewer service line as well as the
expense of restoring said service back to an operable condition shall be paid
prior to restoration of service. Furthermore, it is a debt due the City and may
be recovered by legal action against the water user in addition to the fee set
forth above.
   G.   Nothing herein shall limit the City's right to pursue other remedies,
both in law and equity, to collect past due sewer fees and costs associated
with said collection. (Ord. 2013-02, 3-14-2013)
8-2A-8: SEWAGE FACILITIES FUND:
There is hereby established a Sewage Facilities Fund to be maintained by the
City Clerk in managing the fiscal affairs of the City. All fees and charges
received and collected under authority of this article shall be initially
deposited and credited to a special fund to be designated as the Sewage
Facilities Fund. The accounts of said fund shall show all receipts and
expenditures for the maintenance, operation, upkeep, repair, replacement and
improvement of the sewerage works and any payments into a sinking fund
established for the purpose of paying the principal of and interest on the
sewer revenue bonds of the City which shall, from time to time, be outstanding.
As provided by law, when budgeted and appropriated, the funds and credits to
the account of the Sewage Facilities Fund shall be available for the payment of
the requirements for the maintenance, operation, repairs, upkeep, replacement
and improvement of the sewerage works of the City and, to the extent legally
available, for payment into a sinking fund established for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the general obligation sewer bonds of the City
which shall, from time to time, be outstanding. The City shall provide DEQ's
SRF (Sewer Revolving Fund) Loan Project Officer applicable City budgets and
wastewater facility operational budgets for his/her use, review and project
record. (Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
8-2A-9: SEWER SYSTEM EXTENSION COSTS:
   A.   Except when sewer construction is required by the subdivision or zoning
ordinance of the City or by agreement with the City, whenever an extension is
made to the Municipal sewerage system of two thousand feet (2,000') or less by
a private person (hereinafter referred to as the "original financier") in such
a manner as to provide a sewer main in the public right-of-way adjacent to
private land, each property owner of such adjacent land who did not participate
in the initial construction costs of said sewer line (hereinafter referred to
as the "nonparticipating property owner") shall obtain from the original
financier a Certificate of Financial Contribution stating that the original
financier has received prorata reimbursement for the costs of installing the
sewer line extension from the nonparticipating property owner in accordance
herewith.
   B.   The prorata payment shall be determined by dividing the cost of the
sewer main by the front footage of all properties abutting that portion of the
public street or way in which the sewer main has been installed and all
property owned by the original financier along the public street or way. A
Certificate of Financial Contribution shall be obtained only by those
properties which connect a building sewer service line directly into the sewer
main installed by the original financier, but shall not include subsequent main
sewer line extensions or Municipal connections thereto. Said Certificate of
Financial Contribution shall be filed with the City building inspector prior to
issuance of the sewer connection permit by the City with regard to
nonparticipating property. For nonparticipating property abutting a street or
public way in which the sewer line is located, the proper prorata compensation
shall be not more than one-half (1/2) the cost of installation of the sewer
main, together with fixtures and appurtenances along the frontage of the
nonparticipating property.
   C.   In addition to all other approvals required, prior to construction of
any extension to the Municipal sewer system, the original financier shall
provide, and the City shall approve, construction plans for said extension, the
list of the nonparticipating properties, and the cost per foot to be reimbursed
by the nonparticipating properties, together with at least three (3) bona fide
competitive bids for construction of said extension. The lowest competitive bid
shall be used as the basis for computing the proper prorata reimbursement of
nonparticipating property owners.
   D.   The original financier shall file with the City Clerk an Identification
Certificate stating the name, address, and telephone number of the original
financier, and costs of construction as evidenced by the lowest of the three
(3) competitive bids. Said Identification Certificate shall be filed within
thirty (30) days after approval of the sewer system extension plans by the
City. It shall be the sole duty of the original financier to file and maintain
a current Identification Certificate with the City Clerk, and failure to do so
shall constitute a waiver and release of any Certificates of Financial
Contribution required by this section from all nonparticipating property
owners. An original financier shall provide a property owner with a Certificate
of Financial Contribution within thirty (30) days of written request and tender
in certified funds of said prorata share by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and failure to do so shall constitute a waiver and release of said
certificate by the original financier.
   E.   The initial financier shall be entitled to financial contribution from
nonparticipating property owners until the earliest of any of the following:
      1.   Reimbursement from all nonparticipating property owners fronting the
extension to the Municipal sewer system;
      2.   Failure on the part of the original financier to file or maintain a
proper Identification Certificate with the City Clerk;
      3.   Full reimbursement for cost of extension to the sewer system
excluding the initial financier's prorata share of said initial construction
costs;
      4.   A date ten (10) years after final inspection of said sewer line
extension by the City or commencement of use of said sewer line, whichever is
earlier;
      5.   Abandonment or replacement of the extension to the Municipal sewer
system.
   F.   In the event that the City extends any portion of the Municipal sewer
system, all property owners who receive sewer service availability as a result
thereof shall be deemed to benefit from said extension and shall pay to the
City the prorata share of the costs of construction of said extension pursuant
to this section, except the City need not file pursuant to subsection B of this
section.
   G.   In the event any dispute arises concerning the applicability of this
section or the amount to be paid by any nonparticipating property, the Sewer
Superintendent shall determine the proper amount, if any, due upon written
request of the nonparticipating property owner or original financier.
   H.   The City shall not be liable for any error or omission in issuing a
sewer permit without receiving a Certificate of Financial Contribution, and it
shall be the sole responsibility of the original financier to monitor and
ensure compliance by nonparticipating property owners with these provisions.
(Ord. 2010-07, 9-23-2010)
TITLE 9
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
9-1-2: Amendments To IBC
9-1-3: Exemptions
9-1-4: Copies Available
9-1-5: Criminal Penalties; Civil Enforcement
9-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The following codes are adopted by reference by the City of Bellevue, Idaho:
   A.   The International Building Code, 2003 edition published by the
International Code Council ("IBC");
   B.   The International Mechanical Code, 2003 edition, published by the
International Code Council;
   C.   International Residential Code, 2003 edition published by the
International Code Council; and
   D.   International Energy Conservation Code, 2003 edition, published by the
International Code Council. (Ord. 2006-17, 8-24-2006)
   E.   The Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1994
edition, published by the International Conference of Building Officials. (Ord.
95-08, 9-14-1995)
Each of the above-named codes is adopted as if fully set forth herein subject
to the amendments set forth in this chapter. The adopted versions of the each
of the above-named codes shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of
such codes as the same are duty adopted or approved by the Idaho Building Code
Board effective of the date any such code is made effective by the Idaho
Building Code Board. The amendments by the City of Bellevue, Idaho to any such
superseded code shall remain in full force and effect until new amendments are
hereby adopted provided that such amendments do not conflict with any other
provisions of the newly adopted version of such Code. (Ord. 2006-17, 8-24-2006)
9-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO IBC:
The International Building Code, 2003 edition, is hereby amended, altered and
changed as follows: (Ord. 2006-17, 8-24-2006)
   A.   Section R105.1 of the 2006 International Building Code (IBC) is amended
as follows: 1. One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed
120 200 square feet.
(Ord. 2009-03, 10-23-2008)
   B.   Section 108 of said code is amended by deleting therefrom subsection
108.2, Schedule of Permit Fees in its entirety, and adding thereto a new
subsection 108.2. Schedule of Permit Fees, as follows:
      1. 108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. The fee for each permit shall be as set
forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The
determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions of this code
shall be made by the building official per IBC Section 108, as set forth herein
attached as Exhibit A. based upon the then most current "Building Valuation
Data" published in the "Building Standard" by the International Conference of
Building Officials. The value to be used in computing the building permit and
building plan review fees shall be the total value of all construction work for
which the permit is issued as well as all finish work, painting, roofing,
electrical, plumbing heating, air conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing
systems and any other permanent equipment. A full Building Permit Fee and ten
per cent (10%) Plan Check Fee for all re-roofing shall be required.
      2. Plan Review Fees. When a plan or other data are required to be
submitted, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting plans and
specifications for review. Said plan review fee shall be sixty-five (65)
percent of the building permit fee as shown in Table 1A hereinabove Exhibit -A-
on file in the City. Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan review, an additional plan review fee may be charged at the
rate shown.
      3. Payment of Fees. Full payment of building permit fee, and a building
plan review fee are required at the time of and as a part of the application
for a building permit.
      4. Waiver of Fees. The building official may waive or reduce the fees
required under this ordinance upon direction from the Common Council in
appropriate cases for non-profit organizations or governmental agencies where
the Common Council determines it is in the public interest to waive or reduce
said fees.
   C.   Section 108.6 of said code is amended by deleting therefrom said
section, in its entirety and adding thereto a new section 108.6, as follows:
"108.6 Refund of Fees. No refund of any fee collected under this ordinance
shall be made unless it is authorized by the Common Council, except (a) the
building official may refund any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid
or collected, (b) up to eighty percent (80%) of the building permit fee paid
when no work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this
ordinance and the permit is abandoned in writing by the permittee, or (c) up to
eighty percent (80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a
permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or canceled
before any plan reviewing is done."
   D.   Section 202 of said code is amended by adding thereto the following
definition:
"Commencement of Building or Work Authorized - the excavation, complete
trenching and installation of forms for footings. Where no forms are used, it
is excavation and compete trenching."
   E.   Table R-301.2(1) is hereby established for residential roof
construction:
   TABLE R-301.2 (1)
 
GROUND SNOW LOAD WIND SPEED ICE SHIELD UNDERLAYMENT
80 lbs.          70 (mph)   Required
 
   F.   Table no. R-403.1, Residential Foundations for Stud Bearing Wall
Minimum Requirements is hereby added as follows:
   TABLE NO. R-403.1 RESIDENTIAL FOUNDATIONS FOR
   STUD BEARING WALL MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
 
                  THICKNESS OF                             DEPTH OF FOUNDATION
                  FOUNDATION WALL     THICKNESS OF FOOTING BELOW NATURAL
NUMBER OF STORIES (inches) CONCRETE & (inches)             SURFACE OF GROUND OR
                  MASONRY (inches)                         FINISH GRADE
                                                           (inches)
1                 6                   6 8                 24
2                 8                   7 8                 24
3                 10                  8 10                24
 
   G.   Section 502.1 of said code is amended by deleting therefrom the
definition of "Height, Building", and by adding thereto a new definition of
"Height of Building" as follows:
      "Height of Building is the vertical distance measured from the highest
point of the roof directly below to natural grade prior to any site excavation,
grading or filling or to the grade existing as of the effective date of
Bellevue Ordinance 95-48, whichever is lowest."
   H.   Section 505 of said code is amended by adding thereto the following new
subparagraph:
      Mezzanines with Group R occupancies shall have at least one operable
window meeting egress dimensions or exterior door approved for emergency escape
or rescue conforming to the provision of the International Fire Code.
   I.   Section 1607 is amended by adding thereto new subsection 1607.2.2, as
follows:
      1607.2.1 Roofs shall sustain, within the stress limitations of this Code,
all "dead Loads" plus unit "snow loads" of at least eighty (80) pounds per
square foot. The snow loads shall be assumed to act vertically upon the area
projected upon a horizonal plane. Where uniform roof loads are involved in the
design of structural members arranged so as to create continuity, consideration
may be limited to full dead loads on all spans in combination with full live
loads on adjacent spans and on alternate spans.
      Where uniform roof loads are involved in the design of structural members
arranged so as to create continuity, consideration may be limited to full dead
loads on all spans in combination with full live loads on adjacent spans and on
alternate spans.
      1607.2.2. Snow Loads for Roof Construction with Parapet Walls. All roof
structures with more than eighty percent (80%) of the roof perimeter
constructed with a parapet wall or walls exceeding 12' in height shall be
constructed to hold a snow load factor twenty-five percent (25%) greater than
the snow load requirements set forth in Subsection 1605.7 hereinabove.
      EXCEPTION: Alternate span loading need not be considered where the
uniform roof load is twenty (20) pounds per square foot or more and the
provisions of Subsection 1605.3 are met.
   J.   Table 1607.1 is amended by changing Use or Occupancy Category, lines 5
and 6 (balconies and decks) and line 8 (cornices) at column 2 (Uniform Load) to
read "100 lbs".
   K.   Subsection 1805.2 of said code is amended by deleting therefrom said
section, in its entirety, and adopting a section 1805.2 as follows:
      "1805.2 Depth of Footing. The minimum depth of footings low Natural
Surface of Ground or Finish Grade shall not be less than twenty-four (24)
inches for all wall thickness. Where applicable, the depth of footings shall
conform to Sections 1805.2.1 through 1805.2.3."
   L.   Table No. 1805.4.2., Foundations for Non Residential Stud Bearing Wall
Minimum Requirements is hereby amended by deleting therefore the language with
a line stricken there through and by adding the underlined language, as
follows: 
   TABLE NO. 1805.4.2 NONRESIDENTIAL - FOUNDATIONS FOR
   STUD BEARING WALL MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
 
                  THICKNESS OF                             DEPTH OF FOUNDATION
                  FOUNDATION WALL     THICKNESS OF FOOTING BELOW NATURAL
NUMBER OF STORIES (inches) CONCRETE & (inches)             SURFACE OF GROUND OR
                  MASONRY (inches)                         FINISH GRADE
                                                           (inches)
1                 6                   6 8                 24
2                 8                   7 8                 24
3                 10                  8 10                24
 
   M.   Subsection 2111.14.1 of said code is amended by adding thereto a new
subsection 2111.14.1.1 as follows:
      "2111.14.1.1 Factory-built chimneys shall be enclosed within a shaft or
chase and shall be protected on the interior (flue) side as required for one-
hour resistive construction.
      All factory-built chimneys shall have approved spark arrestors installed
at the point of termination. The point of termination of a factory-built
chimney shall be two (2) feet above vertically of any part of building within
ten (10) feet away."
(Ord. 2006-17, 8-24-2006)
   N. Section 3102 of the 2006 International Building Code (IBC) is amended by
adding a new section as follows: 3102-A Membrane structures as defined under
section 3102 of the adopted IBC shall not be allowed for temporary or permanent
use, including but not limited to Assembly Group A, section 303, Business Group
B, section 304, Educational Group E, section 305, Factory Group F, section 306,
High Hazard Group H, section 307, Institutional Group I, section 308, group
Mercantile M section 309 and residential Group R section 310 all of the IBC.
(Ord. 2009-03, 10-23-2008)
   O. Said code is amended by adding thereto the following chapters:
   3505 No person shall do or cause any grading or fill without having first
obtained a grading permit from the building official, except for the following:
      (a) An excavation below finished grade for basements and footings of a
building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building
permit. This shall not exempt any fill made with the material from such
excavation nor exempt any excavation having an unsupported height greater than
5 feet after the completion of such structure.
      (b) Cemetery Graves.
      (c) Where upon application duly made, the building official finds that
the grading or fill to be done is located outside the floodplain or slopes with
a grade of less than twenty- five percent (25%) and is an isolated self-
contained area with no apparent danger to private or public property therefrom,
and the grading or fill will not result in any significant soil displacement or
erosion, and where no use of explosives will be required.
   3601 Indemnity. Every person, firm or corporation to whom permission has
been granted under the terms of this code and the general ordinances to utilize
public property for the demolition work or the moving of any building,
structure or utility, shall at all times assume full responsibility for such
demolition or moving. Such permission shall be further conditioned for the use
of public property to at all time release, hold harmless and indemnify the City
of Bellevue, Idaho, and all of its agents and employees from any and all
responsibility, liability, loss or damage resulting to any persons or property
or caused by or incidental to the demolition or moving work.
   3602 Insurance. Any person, firm or corporation, demolishing or moving any
building, structure or utility, shall deposit with the building official a
certificate of insurance showing the City of Bellevue, Idaho is a named insured
on the insurance policy. The certificate of insurance shall evidence that the
liability insurance policy covers the policy holder and the City of Bellevue,
Idaho, is a named insured. Such insurance shall be valid at all times during
demolition or moving operations. Said liability insurance coverage shall be in
the amount of at least $1,000,000 for bodily or personal injury, death, or
property damage or loss as the result of any one (1) occurrence or accident,
regardless of the number of persons injured or the number of claimants. The
insurance carrier shall be duly authorized to do business in the State of
Idaho. The purpose of the insurance required herein in specified in Section
3601 of this Chapter.
   3603 Damage to Public Property. As a condition of obtaining a permit to
wreck, remove or move any building, structure or utility, the permittee assumes
liability for any damage to public property occasioned by such moving,
demolition or removal operations.
   3604 Prior to the moving of a structure on to or from a parcel of real
property, the person obtaining the permit from the building official for such
removal and relocation shall notify in writing at least three (3) days all
persons residing on adjacent properties that such work will be done and the
times thereof. Such notice may be given by certified mail return receipt
requested or by leaving a copy of the notice attached to the front door of such
residence.
   P.   Said code is amended by adding thereto a new chapter 3701, as follows:
   "Chapter 37. Sidewalks, Curb and Gutters. This Chapter shall apply to the
construction of all sidewalks, curbs, gutters, drainage and all paving of
streets, alleys and appropriate easements within the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
No person shall construct a curb, sidewalk, gutter, alley or pave any street,
alley or easement without first having submitted plans thereof certified by a
Civil Engineer and approved by the building official designed for safe and
adequate construction, grade, drainage and/or paving in accordance with the
standards set forth in this ordinance, the Bellevue Street Standards Ordinance
and all other applicable ordinances and resolutions of the City of Bellevue,
Idaho."
(Ord. 2005-05, 12-9-2004)
9-1-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Agricultural buildings are exempt for the Building Codes adopted herein, but
shall remain subject to the requirements of the Bellevue zoning ordinance and
all other applicable ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of said
City. Agricultural buildings shall obtain a building permit to ensure
compliance with the applicable ordinances, including, without limitation,
placement and bulk requirements established by the zoning regulations. The term
"agricultural building" shall mean a structure used solely for bona fide
agricultural use (meaning the growing and cultivation of crops and/or the
raising of livestock). The cost of such permit shall be as set forth for the
total hourly cost to the jurisdiction as noted with regard to other inspections
and fees set forth in exhibit A on file in the City. (Ord. 2005-05, 12-9-2004)
9-1-4: COPIES AVAILABLE:
Three (3) copies of each of the codes adopted by this chapter shall be kept on
file in the office of the building inspector for use and examination by the
public. (Ord. 2005-05, 12-9-2004; amd. 2018 Code)
9-1-5: CRIMINAL PENALTIES; CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person, firm, association, or corporation that fails to comply with
or violates any of these regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that said violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense. (Ord. 2005-05, 12-9-2004; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Appropriate actions and proceedings, at law or in equity, may be
instituted by the City of Bellevue, Idaho, to restrain or abate violations of
this chapter, or compel compliance herewith, or to prevent illegal construction
or occupancy of any building, structure, or premises in violation of this
chapter together with appropriate damages therefor. These remedies shall be
cumulative and in addition to all other legal remedies and penalties provided
by law. (Ord. 2005-05, 12-9-2004)
CHAPTER 2
ROADS, STREETS, PATHWAYS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Permit Requirements
9-2-3: Guarantee, Hold Harmless Agreement And Bond Or Security
9-2-4: Construction Standards And Design Criteria
9-2-5: General Procedures And Responsibilities
9-2-6: Preservation Of Land Monuments And Utility Markers
9-2-7: Site Cleanup
9-2-8: As Built Drawings
9-2-9: Access For Inspections
9-2-10: Inspections And Tests
9-2-11: City Under No Obligation To Accept Improvements
9-2-12: Temporary Closure Of Public Roads And Streets
9-2-13: Adoption Of Standards, Codes, Rules And Regulations
9-2-14: Exemptions From Provisions
9-2-15: Appeals
9-2-16: Criminal Penalties; Civil Enforcement
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the meanings set forth below for the purposes of
the interpretation of this chapter:
AASHTO: The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: The person desiring to be issued a permit required under this
chapter and, upon issuance, the permittee. References to contractor also
include within its meaning the applicant.
APPROACH: That portion of a street or private road or driveway which is
immediately adjacent to and accesses upon a public right-of-way and provides a
means of access to private property, or a public or private street or road, or
a driveway.
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL OR COMMON COUNCIL: The Common Council of the City of Bellevue,
Idaho.
CITY ENGINEER: The engineer or engineering firm designated by the City to
review and approve permit applications and construction plans and inspect, test
and approve completed work.
CONTRACTOR: The individual, firm or corporation undertaking execution of the
construction work for which an application for permit has been made and issued.
The contractor shall be the agent of the applicant, and all references to
contractor shall include, within its meaning, the applicant, jointly and
severally, and the applicant shall be responsible for full compliance by the
contractor as required under this chapter.
NFPA: The National Fire Protection Association.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, private or
public, Municipal corporation or other governmental entity and any other
business or other legal entity.
STANDARDS: The standards, criteria, design criteria, standard specifications,
standard drawings and other data and information adopted or referenced herein.
(Ord. 98-06, 2-26-1998)
9-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall, without first
obtaining a permit from the City, do, cause to be done or authorize any of the
following:
      1.   Construct, repair, relocate or improve any public street or
construct, relocate or improve any private street;
      2.   Construct, repair, replace or improve any public bicycle path,
equestrian path or other public easement;
      3.   Construct, repair, relocate, or improve any approach or curb cut
onto any public street or right-of-way;
      4.   Dig in, excavate, trench, or otherwise disturb the surface or
subsurface of any street, public or private, or any public bicycle path,
equestrian path or other public easement or right- of-way; (Ord. 2005-01, 10-
28-2004)
      5.   Encroachments shall be limited to the following: public utilities
and public improvements and approaches for private streets and driveways. (Ord.
2016-03, 7-11-2016)
   B.   Types Of Permits; Compliance Required: Prior to commencing any activity
requiring a permit hereunder, the person desiring to undertake such activity or
the contractor of such a person, as agent for that person, shall file an
application with the City and be issued a permit therefor. All such
construction, improvement and activity shall be in conformance with this
chapter and all other applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations
pertaining thereto. Such permits include the following:
      1.   Street construction permit to construct, relocate or improve any
public street, or portion thereof or to construct, relocate or improve any
private street, or portion thereof;
      2.   Street repair and excavation permit to repair any public street, or
portion thereof, or to excavate, dig in, trench, or otherwise disturb the
surface or subsurface of any public street;
      3.   Public pathway construction permit to construct, repair, replace or
improve any public bike path, equestrian path or other public easement, or any
portion thereof; (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
      4.   Encroachments shall be limited to the following: public utilities
and public improvements and approaches for private streets and driveways upon
or under any public street or right- of-way. (Ord. 2016-03, 7-11-2016)
   C.   Application For Permit; Fee:
      1.   A complete permit application shall be submitted to the City
employee or department, as designated by resolution of the City Council,
including, but not limited to, such plans, specifications, drawings,
engineering data and other information required under this chapter, and the
permit application fee, as set by resolution of the City Council. The
application form shall be provided by the City and shall contain, at least, the
following information:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant;
         b.   The legal description for the land upon which the proposed work
shall be done or the location of the public street or way for which the permit
is requested;
         c.   Name and address of the contractor or contractors to do the work
as agents of the applicant;
         d.   A bona fide cost estimate of the construction and work to be
performed;
         e.   If the permit is for construction, relocation or replacement of
any improvement, then construction plans, drawings and specifications, prepared
by a professional engineer registered in the State of Idaho, shall be submitted
as part of the application, and shall include, at least, the following
information with regard to the area to be worked on:
            (1)   Alignment and profile of all streets for which work is
proposed;
            (2)   Location of all underground utilities including alignment and
depth;
            (3)   Location, size, and type of all drainage structures;
            (4)   Connections to existing streets, drainage facilities, and all
utilities;
            (5)   Adequate dimensions and details for accurate construction of
all street and other improvements;
            (6)   Adequate specifications to ensure that proper materials and
workmanship to attain the construction will be in compliance with the design
criteria, standards, specifications and standard drawings.
      2.   The City Engineer or employee reviewing the application may require
additional information and/or construction plans, drawings and specifications
as deemed reasonably necessary by him/her to properly review the application,
issue the permit requested, or inspect the work thereunder.
      3.   At the time of submitting the permit application and as a part
thereof, the applicant shall pay to the City the fee for the permit application
as set by resolution of the City Council.
   D.   Compliance With Provisions: No permit shall be issued except where the
application therefor and the work to be performed thereunder is in conformance
with this chapter. The issuance of a permit shall not authorize any work which
is not in conformance with this chapter and all other applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
   E.   Expiration Of Permit: A permit issued under this chapter shall expire
if the work is not started within sixty (60) days or not completed within one
year from the date of issuance, and a new permit shall be required before
beginning or completing the work. A permit shall cover only contiguous
construction, and the work shall be done as one continuous operation. An
extension of no more than one year may be granted by the City upon written
request of the applicant for good cause beyond control of applicant or his
contractor(s). (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-3: GUARANTEE, HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT AND BOND OR SECURITY:
   A.   As a condition of the issuance of any permit under this chapter, in
addition to all other guarantees set forth in this chapter and appendix A on
file in the Office of the City Clerk, the applicant and the contractor shall,
jointly and severally, irrevocably guarantee the quality and durability of all
materials and workmanship to the City for the period of two (2) years from the
date of final inspection approval. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
   B.   The applicant and contractor shall execute a hold harmless agreement to
indemnify and hold the City harmless from any loss, injury or damage resulting
from the work undertaken or the manner of doing same, and the City may require
the applicant and contractor to post a bond to secure full performance thereof.
(Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   The City may require the applicant and/or contractor to post a
performance bond, or other security acceptable to the Common Council, prior to
the issuance of the permit or at any time thereafter. The bond shall be for one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the bona fide estimated construction cost, and
the bond shall be effective until the expiration of guarantee. (Ord. 97-06, 7-
24-1997)
9-2-4: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Minimum Standards: The design criteria, standards, specifications and
standard drawings set forth in this section are hereby adopted as the minimum
standards for permit application approval and construction and other work
undertaken pursuant to this chapter within the City. Said criteria, standards,
specifications and standard drawings apply to all construction, repair,
improvement, and other activities for which a permit is required under
subsection 9-2-2B of this chapter.
      1.   Street Construction Permit Standards: The design criteria, standard
specifications, standard drawings, and additional requirements for the
construction, reconstruction, repair, replacement and improvement of all
streets and roadways, public or private, or any portion thereof, are set forth
in appendix A entitled City of Bellevue, Idaho Street Construction Standards,
which is on file with the City, and subsequent amendments thereto.
      2.   Public Pathway Construction Permit Standards: The design criteria,
standard specifications, standard drawings and additional requirements for
bicycle paths, equestrian paths and other public pathways are set forth in the
Blaine County Bikepath and Public Pathway Construction Standards, and
subsequent amendments thereto, hereby adopted by reference.
      3.   Street Excavation Permit Standards: The design criteria, standard
specifications, standard drawings and additional requirements for any digging
in, excavation, trenching or other disturbance to the surface or subsurface of
any street, public or private, or public right-of-way, or any portion thereof,
are set forth in appendix A, incorporated herein by reference and which is on
file with the City, and subsequent amendments thereto.
      4.   Encroachment Permit Applications And Standards:
         a.   All encroachment permit applications shall be submitted to the
City Engineer or designee for review and final decision to approve, approve
with conditions or deny same. City Engineer or designee may require such
information, plans, engineering reports, and studies as it reasonably deems
appropriate to properly consider such application. Approval or denial of an
encroachment permit application shall be in the sound discretion of the City
Engineer or designee. City Engineer or designee shall consider and review each
application upon the following standards, criteria and factors:
            (1)   Whether or not the proposed improvement will benefit the City
and inhabitants thereof;
            (2)   The need for said improvement and any services provided
thereby to the City and inhabitants thereof;
            (3)   That there will be no detrimental effects from such
improvement upon the public health, safety and/or welfare of the City and/or
inhabitants;
            (4)   That there are no alternative locations, routes and methods
of construction for the proposed improvements that will eliminate potential
adverse effect(s) therefrom or conflict(s) with future infrastructure
improvements by the City; and
            (5)   Such other factors as the City Engineer or designee may deem
appropriate based upon the particular circumstances of each encroachment
application to ensure that the requested encroachment and the permit, if any,
issued therefor promotes and is not detrimental to the health, safety and/or
welfare of the City or inhabitants thereof.
         b.   Encroachment permit applications shall be reviewed and approved,
approved with conditions, or denied by the City Engineer or the Engineer’s
designee. Applications shall be reviewed for conformance with the following
standards:
            (1)   The approach is to be constructed to adopted City Standards
and applicable City Code requirements.
            (2)   The approach will not create unreasonable hazards for
pedestrians, cyclists, or motorists.
            (3)   The approach will not disrupt or unreasonably impact the flow
of stormwater.
            (4)   Other factors as deemed necessary by the City Engineer.
            The decision of the Engineer is subject to appeal pursuant to
Section
9-2-15.
         c.   The City Engineer or designee may attach reasonable conditions
upon the issuance of an encroachment permit to protect the health, safety and/
or welfare of the City or inhabitants thereof.
      5.   Special Conditions: Other reasonable criteria, specifications and
drawings may be required for special situations or improvements as determined
by the City Engineer, and all such special criteria, standard specifications
and drawings shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      6.   Other Improvement Standards: If an improvement is proposed for which
no standards are set forth herein, the standards of the Idaho Department of
Transportation, or other State agency having standards therefor, including
subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein by reference. Standards for construction of sidewalks, curbs and gutters
shall be pursuant to a specific plan approved by the City Engineer consistent
with existing improvements to adjacent property.
   B.   Amendments To Standards: Amendments and additions to each of the
appendices on file with the City may be adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 98-06, 2-26-1998; amd. Ord. 2025-04, 4-28-2025; Ord. 2025-08, 7-28-2025)
9-2-5: GENERAL PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
There shall be compliance with the following by all permittees and contractor
(s):
   A.   The contractor shall use every reasonable precaution to safeguard the
public and to prevent injury to persons and property. It shall be the sole
responsibility of the contractor to furnish, place and maintain such
barricades, barriers, lights, flares, danger signals, watchmen and other safety
items and procedures as are reasonably necessary to protect persons and
property. All barricades and obstructions shall be marked at night by signal
lights which shall be suitably distributed, placed and kept burning from sunset
to sunrise to adequately mark the same and warn the public thereof.
   B.   Whenever a contractor's operation creates a hazardous condition, the
contractor shall furnish flagmen and guards as necessary to give adequate
warning to the public of any dangerous condition to be encountered. Flagmen and
guards, while on duty, shall wear apparel of red or orange or other bright,
reflective color, and carry adequate flags or other warning and caution devices
as shall be appropriate under the circumstances.
   C.   No road or street shall be closed to the public by an applicant or
contractor except by express prior written permission of the City employee who
approved the permit application for the work requiring such closure. The
contractor shall conduct the work so as to ensure the least possible
obstruction to traffic and to protect persons and property in a safe and
adequate manner. The contractor shall notify the City Marshal's Office before
the closing of any street, or portion thereof, and no closing shall be made
without the prior written approval of the Marshal's Office.
   D.   The contractor shall leave his night emergency phone number or numbers
with the City Marshal's Office and the Blaine County Sheriff's Office so that
contact may be made as easily as possible at all times in case of emergencies.
   E.   The contractor shall perform all work in a fire safe manner and shall
supply and maintain on the site adequate firefighting equipment capable of
extinguishing incipient fires. The contractor shall comply with all applicable
local and State fire prevention regulations and applicable parts of NFPA no.
214.
   F.   Whenever the contractor's operation could cause damage or loss of
service of any utility, including, but not limited to, telephone, television,
power, gas, water, irrigation or other private or public utility systems, the
contractor shall make all arrangements necessary for the protection thereof
with the utility involved prior to commencing any work in the vicinity thereof.
The contractor shall notify all utility offices which are affected by the
construction at least forty eight (48) hours in advance. The contractor shall
not expose any utility without first requesting permission and being granted
permission to do so from the affected utility. Once permission has been
granted, the contractor shall locate, if necessary, and expose all existing
underground utilities in advance of any trenching operation or other work. In
the event of the interruption of or damage to any such utility, the contractor
shall promptly notify the proper utility authority and fully cooperate with
said authority in restoration of services as promptly as possible and bear all
costs of repair. In no case shall the contractor cause or permit interruption
of any utility service to exist outside the working hours unless prior approval
has been received by the utility and all affected parties. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-
1997)
9-2-6: PRESERVATION OF LAND MONUMENTS AND UTILITY MARKERS:
The contractor shall preserve or replace all existing Federal, State, County
and private land monumentations and utility markers. Any destroyed or damaged
markers shall be accurately relocated by the contractor, at the contractor's
expense, to the satisfaction of the governmental entity, property owner and/or
utility whose marker has been so removed or damaged. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-7: SITE CLEANUP:
The contractor shall, at all times during the performance of the work, keep the
worksite clean and orderly and promptly remove all waste material and rubbish.
Upon completion of the work, all materials, equipment, rubbish and any items
placed by the contractor and not part of the completed improvements shall be
completely removed within forty eight (48) hours of approved final inspection.
(Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-8: AS BUILT DRAWINGS:
Upon completion of the construction of an improvement, and prior to final
inspection approval thereof, the applicant shall provide the building inspector
with a set of "as built" drawings of all construction and improvements. (Ord.
97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-9: ACCESS FOR INSPECTIONS:
The City Engineer, City Road Department, and their authorized representatives,
shall at all times have access to the work for which a permit has been issued,
and the contractor shall provide such personnel proper facilities for such
access and inspection. The City reserves the right to reject any construction
completed prior to the issuance of a construction permit or approval of
construction plans or construction not in compliance with the standards set
forth in this chapter and the terms and conditions of the permit issued for
such work. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-10: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:
   A.   The contractor and/or applicant shall notify the City Engineer or City
employee responsible for inspecting the work not less than a minimum of twenty
four (24) normal workday hours prior to each of the following: 1) the beginning
of commencement of any work for which a permit has been issued under this
chapter; and 2) any requested inspection of any work covered by such permit;
and 3) commencement of any backfilling operations to allow for inspection of
all utilities, bedding, joints and similar items. In each instance where an
inspection is required, until the required inspection is completed and the work
approved by the City, no further work shall be undertaken.
   B.   All testing shall be in accordance with the standard specifications set
forth in the applicable appendices on file in the Office of the City Clerk. All
testing shall be at the expense of the applicant, and the payments for required
testings shall be made directly to the testing agency. Sampling and testing
methods shall be approved in advance in writing by the City Engineer. Copies of
all test reports shall be submitted to the City Engineer immediately upon their
issuance by the testing agency and/or their receipt by the applicant or
contractor. Replacement, correction or repair of unsatisfactory materials,
workmanship or improvements shall be as specified by the City Engineer.
Completion of the same, as specified, shall be in accordance with criteria,
specifications and drawings approved by the City Engineer and shall be done
within a period of time as determined by the City Engineer.
   C.   Compaction tests shall be performed at the location of the work being
tested. Testing frequency established prior to the beginning thereof by the
City Engineer will normally be required on at least two (2) layers of
backfilled material. A failing to perform such compaction tests will
necessitate excavation, recompaction and retesting. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-11: CITY UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO ACCEPT IMPROVEMENTS:
Adherence to these regulations, standards, and specifications will not obligate
the City, in any way, to accept any street or other improvement or to repair or
maintain same. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-12: TEMPORARY CLOSURE OF PUBLIC ROADS AND STREETS:
   A.   The Common Council, or any public official or employee designated by
the Council, may post a notice and temporarily close, or reasonably limit,
travel on any public road, street or way within the jurisdiction of the City
upon and for the duration of any of the following conditions or circumstances:
      1.   During periods of danger to persons or property due from avalanches,
flooding, mudslides, ice and similar natural occurrences or disasters.
      2.   During periods when travel by vehicles will cause damage to the
surface of the road.
      3.   For parades and other public events.
      4.   For road construction, maintenance and repairs.
   B.   The notice of road closure shall be made by the posting of a written
notice of closure in a manner that it may be read by the public at the point of
which the road is closed. No person shall violate any of the provisions of the
posted notice of road closure.
   C.   The City Council hereby designates the City Marshal to close roads
under this section. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-13: ADOPTION OF STANDARDS, CODES, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All NFPA, AASHTO, ASTM, Idaho State Department Of Transportation, and other
standards, codes, rules and regulations referred to in this chapter are each
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-14: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
All work done by or under contract with the City shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
9-2-15: APPEALS:
A person who is aggrieved by the denial or issuance of a permit or any decision
made by the City Engineer or other City official or employee shall have the
right to appeal said decision within fifteen (15) days of the date that the
permit is issued or denied or the decision otherwise under appeal is made. If
no appeal is filed with the City Clerk within said fifteen (15) day period, the
decision is final. The notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall set forth
the decision appealed and the reasons that the appeal should be granted. All
appeals shall be heard by the City Council and shall be limited to the record
before the City Engineer or other representative with regard to the subject
application. The City Council may approve, approve with conditions, modify, or
deny the appeal or remand the application for further review. (Ord. 97-06, 7-
24-1997)
9-2-16: CRIMINAL PENALTIES; CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person violating this chapter or the design criteria, standards or
standard drawings hereby adopted shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which the illegal construction, alteration,
maintenance or use continues shall be deemed a separate violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   In addition to the criminal penalties set forth in subsection A of this
section, whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, the City may institute
proceedings in the District Court to seek injunctive relief to prevent the
continued violation thereof or to compel compliance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter. Whenever it appears to the Council that any person
has engaged or is about to engage in any act or practice violating any
provision of this chapter, the City may institute a civil action in District
Court to enforce compliance herewith.
   C.   It is hereby declared that a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter constitutes immediate danger to public health, safety, and welfare
necessitating immediate action to remove any prohibited improvement to or
obstruction of any public street or right-of-way, and the City shall have the
right to order the same removed from the public right-of-way, and the
responsible party shall pay all reasonable costs incurred by the City with
regard thereto.
   D.   The City may require a person having a permit to revise, repair or
replace improper work or improvements installed pursuant to a permit issued
hereunder in order to have same conform with the standards of this chapter.
Upon refusal of such a person to revise, repair or replace improper work or
improvements, within fifteen (15) days of the date such notice is issued by the
City, the City may perform the work at the expense of the permittee, and the
City shall have a right to recover and a cause of action against the permittee
for all costs incurred by the City with regard thereto including, but not
limited to, the cost of such repair, restoration or improvement, court costs
and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 97-06, 7-24-1997)
CHAPTER 3
BERM CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Permit Requirements
9-3-4: Standards And Requirements
9-3-5: Appeals
9-3-6: Enforcement And Penalties
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, to minimize adverse impacts associated with the construction
of berms on adjacent lots and public rights-of-way, to prevent erosion, to
ensure adequate drainage, to promote safe vehicular access, and to establish
standards, requirements and procedures for the review and approval of the
design and construction of berms. (Ord. 2001-02, 1-25-2001)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
BERM: A mound of earthen or other fill material constructed above the existing
grade of the lot usually to provide a buffer between a lot and an adjacent
right-of-way or lot.
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
COUNCIL: The Common Council of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
FLOODWAY: The area designated as a "floodway" in the Bellevue zoning ordinance
and other applicable ordinances of the City.
LOT: A lot, parcel, plot, or tract of real property.
100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area designated as a "floodplain" in the Bellevue
zoning ordinance and other applicable ordinances of the City.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or other
entity having an ownership interest in a lot.
PERSON: An individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or other
entity.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land dedicated or acquired for use for public travel
or transportation, which includes streets, sidewalks, shoulders, barrow pits,
snow storage areas and other areas used by the City or public with regard
thereto.
SLOPE: An inclined surface, the inclination of which is expressed as a ratio of
horizontal distance to vertical distance. Slope is measured from the toe or
beginning of the slope of the berm.
STREET: A right-of-way which has been officially accepted. Street shall include
such terms as highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane and
place.
WATER RUNOFF: Water discharged as a result of rain, snow or other
precipitation, or irrigation. (Ord. 2001-02, 1-25-2001)
9-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exemptions:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person to commence or permit construction of any berm on any lot within the
City without having first obtained a valid written berm construction permit in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to alter, improve or modify a berm within the City existing on the
effective date hereof without having first obtained a valid written berm
construction permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   a. A berm construction permit is not required for berms constructed
less than one foot (1') in height above existing grade and more than two feet
(2') from the nearest property line of the lot upon which any such berm is
constructed, provided such berms are constructed in accordance with the
standards set forth in section
9-3-4 of this chapter.
         b.   A berm construction permit is not required for berms constructed
more than ten feet (10') from the nearest property line of the lot upon which
any such berm is constructed, provided such berms are constructed in accordance
with the standards set forth in section
9-3-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for a berm construction permit
shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator ("Administrator") by
at least one owner, or the owner's authorized agent, of the lot upon which the
berm is proposed, accompanied by the fee specified by resolution of the
Council. The application shall include at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant and all owners of
the lot.
      2.   Legal description of the property.
      3.   A construction plan of the proposed berm showing:
         a.   The location of the proposed berm in relationship to all property
lines and rights-of-way;
         b.   The existing grade of the lot;
         c.   The proposed height, width and slope of the berm;
         d.   Landscaping and irrigation proposed for the berm;
         e.   All buildings, parking areas, traffic access points and easements
on the lot;
         f.   A drainage plan for the berm in relationship to adjacent rights-
of-way and lots;
         g.   A north arrow; and
         h.   Such other information as the Administrator may reasonably
require to determine if the proposed berm meets the standards and requirements
of this chapter.
   C.   Review Of Application; Approval Or Denial Of Permit: The Administrator
shall review the application in accordance with this chapter and approve,
conditionally approve or deny the application in writing stating the reasons
for the decision. The Administrator may attached reasonable conditions to the
approval of an application including, but not limited to, those which will
minimize adverse impact on adjacent lots or rights-of-way; control the timing
and/or duration of construction; and assure the berm is constructed and/or
maintained in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 2001-02, 1-25-2001)
9-3-4: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No berms shall be constructed in the floodway or the floodplain.
   B.   No portion of a berm shall be located closer than two feet (2') to any
property line or to the edge of any right-of-way.
   C.   Berms shall have a slope no greater than one foot (1') in height for
two feet (2') in width.
   D.   No berm shall be constructed within seventy five feet (75') of the
center of any public street intersection and shall not block the vision of any
vehicle entering a right-of-way from a private driveway or road for sight
distances in accordance with AASHTO standards in effect as of the date of the
application.
   E.   Berms shall be covered with a depth of topsoil adequate to sustain
vegetation and shall be planted with native drought tolerant grasses and other
native vegetation by October 1 of the year in which construction of the berm
commences.
   F.   Berms shall be designed, constructed and maintained so that undue
erosion does not occur to the berm and water runoff is contained on the lot on
which the berm is constructed and not onto adjacent lots or rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2001-02, 1-25-2001)
9-3-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal From Decision Of Administrator:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Administrator made in
interpreting or enforcing this chapter may appeal such a decision to the
commission by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
twenty (20) days of such decision, stating the date and nature of the decision
from which appealed and the grounds for the appeal. If no notice of appeal is
so filed, the decision of the Administrator shall be final and not subject to
further appeal or review.
      2.   Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the notice of appeal, the
Administrator shall provide the appellant and file with the commission copies
of the record on appeal, including all applications and other documents and
exhibits pertinent to the appeal, together with the Administrator's certificate
stating that the documents listed comprise the complete record of the decision
under appeal.
      3.   The commission shall hold a hearing at a regular meeting of the
commission within thirty (30) days of the Administrator's certification of the
record on appeal. The appeal shall be based and heard solely upon the record
before the Administrator.
      4.   The commission shall, within thirty (30) days after the hearing,
enter a written order affirming, reversing or modifying the Administrator's
decision. The order shall also contain the reasons for the commission's
decision.
   B.   Appeal From Decision Of Commission:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the commission may appeal
the commission's decision to the Council by filing a written notice of appeal
with the City Clerk within twenty (20) days of the commission's final decision.
The notice of appeal shall state the date and the substance of the decision
from which appealed and state the grounds for the appeal. If no notice of
appeal is so filed, the decision of the commission shall be final and not
subject to further appeal or review.
      2.   Within ten (10) days after the filing of the notice of appeal, the
appellant may order a transcript of the proceedings to be prepared, and the
estimated cost of the transcript shall be paid by the appellant prior to
ordering the transcript. The actual cost of the transcript shall be paid by the
appellant in full before the transcript may be forwarded to the Council.
      3.   Within twenty (20) days after receipt of the transcript, the
Administrator shall serve to the appellant and the Council one copy of the
transcript and the record of the appeal including all applications, minutes and
other documents and exhibits pertinent to the appeal, together with the
Administrator's certificate, stating that the documents listed comprise the
complete record of the proceedings under appeal.
      4.   At a regular City Council meeting, the Council shall hold a hearing
on the appeal within thirty (30) days of the Administrator's certification of
the transcript and record on appeal. The appeal shall be based and heard solely
upon the record before the commission. Each party may not present more than
fifteen (15) minutes of oral argument to the Council.
      5.   The Council shall enter an order within thirty (30) days after the
hearing affirming, reversing, or modifying the commission's decision. The order
shall contain a statement of the reasons for the Council's decision. (Ord.
2001-02, 1-25-2001)
9-3-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense. In addition, the City may seek to enforce this
chapter by appropriate civil remedies. (Ord. 2001-02, 1-25-2001; amd. 2018
Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSE NUMBERING SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-4-1: Findings And Purpose
9-4-2: House Numbering Required
9-4-3: Specifications
9-4-4: Administration Of Provisions
9-4-5: Enforcement Of Provisions
9-4-6: Subdivisions
9-4-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The City Council finds that the creation and maintenance of a uniform house and
building numbering system within the City will greatly assist police, fire and
other emergency personnel to quickly and effectively respond to emergency calls
involving situations where life, limb and property are threatened and that such
uniform numbering system will further promote the public health, safety and
welfare of the City and its residents. (Ord. 213, 2-13-1986)
9-4-2: HOUSE NUMBERING REQUIRED:
   A.   All lots, buildings and structures in the City shall be numbered in
accordance with a City number grid map which will, upon completion, be
incorporated as exhibit A on file with the City.
   B.   House or building numbers for structures set behind existing buildings
shall have the same number as the building in front with a proper fraction
added. Apartments, offices, business suites, trailer courts, townhouses,
condominiums, and all similar structures shall have a street address assigned
to the structure with the addition of either a numerical or alphabetical
designation for each separate unit. (Ord. 213, 2-13-1986)
9-4-3: SPECIFICATIONS:
Numerals utilized for purposes of this chapter shall be constructed of a
reflectorized material and measure at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2").
(Ord. 213, 2-13-1986)
9-4-4: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The City shall appoint an Administrator who will be responsible for maintaining
the numbering system. The Administrator shall compile and maintain an official
street name or number list as well as an official map record of the numbering
system in the City. The Administrator shall, upon the final building inspection
of any building constructed after the effective date hereof, require the proper
address be posted and visible from the street or road before a certificate of
occupancy or final approval is issued. (Ord. 213, 2-13-1986)
9-4-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
Houses and buildings incorrectly numbered or not numbered at all shall have
ninety (90) days from the effective date hereof in which to post the correct
address on the house or building occupied. Should any person, firm or
corporation fail to post the correct number on his/her house or building within
ninety (90) days following the effective date hereof, the City shall give
fifteen (15) days' written notice, served by mail or by posting such notice in
a conspicuous place on such property, listing such violation. Any time
following the expiration of the fifteen (15) day notice period, the City shall
cause appropriate posting of the house number upon the noncomplying building
and charge an appropriate fee therefor. In the event the City is required to
post any house number pursuant to this chapter, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00)
for such service shall be charged to the person or persons owning the real
property concerned. (Ord. 213, 2-13-1986)
9-4-6: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Proposed subdivision street or lane names shall be shown on all
preliminary and final plats when submitted to the City for review. No
preliminary or final plat shall be approved until the street names and numbers
have been reviewed and approved by the House Numbers Administrator and checked
against the original street name or number list for possible duplications.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of any subdivider dedicating a new
street to the City to pay the cost of installing street name and number signs
at each and every intersection. Street name or number signs shall conform to
the City's specifications.
   C.   Specifications will be the responsibility of the House Numbering
Administrator, with the approval of the City Council.
   D.   Any person may, where necessary or desirable, make application to the
House Numbering Administrator to change a street name or number, or the House
Number Administrator may do so for reasons of duplication, similar
pronunciation or spelling, or for other reasons relating to public safety or
convenience. The City may require compensation from the applicant in the event
new street name or number signs are required to be purchased and placed. (Ord.
213, 2-13-1986)
CHAPTER 5
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Findings And Purpose
9-5-1-01: Findings
9-5-1-02: Purpose
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Authority, Applicability And Exemptions
9-5-3-01: Authority
9-5-3-02: Applicability
9-5-3-03: Exemptions
9-5-4: Calculation Of Development Impact Fees
9-5-5: General Provisions
9-5-6: Methodology
9-5-7: Schedules
9-5-8: Procedures
9-5-9: Credits And Reimbursement
9-5-9-01: Credits To Be Issued
9-5-9-02: Limitations
9-5-9-03: Valuation Of Credit At Present Value
9-5-9-04: When Credits Become Effective
9-5-9-05: Application Procedures
9-5-9-06: Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due
9-5-9-07: Written Agreement Required
9-5-10: Refunds
9-5-10-01: Duty To Refund
9-5-10-02: Failure To Commence Construction Or Encumber Trust Funds
9-5-10-03: No Refund Due For Subsequent Reduction In Size Of Development
9-5-10-04: Interest
9-5-10-05: Timing
9-5-11: Collection And Administration Of Impact Fees
9-5-11-01: Payment Of Fees
9-5-11-02: Deposit Of Development Impact Fees
9-5-11-03: Establishment Of Trust Fund And Accounts
9-5-11-04: First In/First Out
9-5-11-05: Deposit And Management Of Trust Fund
9-5-12: Use Of Development Impact Fees
9-5-12-01: Admin Capital Facilities
9-5-12-02: Buildings And Grounds Capital Facilities
9-5-12-03: Community Development Capital Facilities
9-5-12-04: Fire Capital Facilities
9-5-12-05: Library Capital Facilities
9-5-12-06: Marshal Capital Facilities
9-5-12-07: Park Capital Facilities
9-5-12-08: Streets Capital Facilities
9-5-12-09: Capital Improvement Plan Reimbursement
9-5-12-10: Limitation On Use
9-5-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
9-5-13-01: Appeals
9-5-13-02: Payment Under Protest
9-5-13-03: Mediation
9-5-14: Periodic Reviews
9-5-14-01: Review And Modification Of Capital Improvement Plan
9-5-14-02: Annual Review
9-5-14-03: Audit
9-5-14-04: Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee Revisions
9-5-15: Enforcement And Collection
9-5-16: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-5-16-01: Development Projects
9-5-16-02: Private Agreements
9-5-16-03: Extraordinary Impacts
9-5-16-04: Reduction In Levels Of Service
9-5-16-05: Additional Rights Not Created
9-5-16-06: Eminent Domain
9-5-16-07: Annexation
9-5-16-08: Alternative Sources Of Revenue
9-5-16-09: Permits Issued Prior To Effective Date
9-5-16-10: Monies Not Expended
9-5-16-11: Errors
9-5-16-12: Recalculation
9-5-16-13: Advisory Committee
9-5-16-14: Penalty
9-5-16-15: Construction
9-5-17: Development Impact Fee Schedule
9-5-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
9-5-1-01: FINDINGS:
   A.   Based on the City of Bellevue comprehensive plan adopted by the City,
pursuant to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65 and based on the general
governmental goal of protecting the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the City, it is necessary that the City's public facilities for: 1)
parks and recreation; 2) transportation; 3) police; and 4) fire be expanded and
improved to accommodate new development within the City. Throughout this
chapter, the system improvements for these types of public facilities are
sometimes collectively referred to as the "City capital facilities" and
sometimes individually referred to as a "City capital improvements element".
   B.   The City will form a Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee as
required by Idaho Code section 67-8205, and that committee will perform the
duties required of it pursuant to Idaho Code sections 67-8205 and 67-8206(2).
The City intends that the Committee continue to exist and to perform those
duties identified in Idaho Code section 67-8205 that occur following the
adoption of development impact fees.
   C.   New residential and nonresidential development imposes and will impose
increasing and excessive demands upon City capital facilities.
   D.   The revenues generated from new residential and nonresidential
development often do not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary
improvements of these City capital facilities to accommodate new development.
   E.   New development is expected to continue, and will place ever increasing
demands on the City to provide and expand City capital facilities to serve new
development.
   F.   The City has planned for the improvement of the City capital facilities
in the City of Bellevue comprehensive plan.
   G.   Idaho Code title 67, chapter 82 (the Idaho development impact fee act)
authorizes the City to adopt a development impact fee system to offset, recoup
or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed improvements to the City
capital facilities caused by new development in the City.
   H.   The creation of an equitable development impact fee system would
promote the purposes set forth in the Idaho development impact fee act, in that
it would: 1) ensure that adequate public facilities are available to serve new
growth and development; 2) promote orderly growth and development by
establishing uniform standards by which the City may require that those who
benefit from new growth and development pay a proportionate share of the cost
of new public facilities needed to serve new growth and development; 3)
establish minimum standards for the adoption of development impact fees; 4)
ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are required to
pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public facilities
needed to serve new growth and development; and 5) prevent duplicate and ad hoc
development requirements.
   I.   The creation of an equitable development impact fee system would enable
the City to accommodate new development, and would assist the City to implement
the capital improvements element of the comprehensive plan.
   J.   In order to implement an equitable development impact fee system for
the City capital facilities, the City retained Richard Caplan and Associates to
prepare an impact fee study for these types of facilities. The resulting
document is titled "City of Bellevue, Idaho, Development Impact Fees Study"
dated November 30, 2022 (the "development impact fee study"). The development
impact fee study was prepared by qualified professionals in the fields relating
to finance, engineering, planning and transportation. Richard Caplan and
Associates has consulted with the Bellevue City Council and will be consulting
with the Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee.
   K.   The methodology used in preparing the development impact fee study,
when applied through this chapter, complies with all applicable provisions of
Idaho law, including those set forth in Idaho Code sections 67-8204(1), (2),
(16) and (23), 67-8207 and 67-8209. The incorporation of the development impact
fee study by reference satisfies the requirement in Idaho Code section 67-8204
(16) for a detailed description of the methodology by which the development
impact fees were calculated, and the requirement in Idaho Code section 67- 8204
(24) for a description of acceptable levels of service for system improvements.
   L.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements, the City has considered: 1) the cost of the existing system
improvements; 2) the means by which the existing system improvements have been
financed; 3) the extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation assessment or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions; 4) the extent to
which the new development is required to contribute to the cost of existing
system improvements in the future: 5) the extent to which the new development
should be credited for providing system improvements, without charge to other
properties within the service area or areas; 6) extraordinary costs, if any,
incurred in serving the new development; 7) the time and price differential
inherent in a fair comparison of fees paid at different times; and 8) the
availability of other sources of funding system improvements, including, but
not limited to, user charges, general tax levies, intergovernmental transfers,
and special taxation. The governmental entity shall develop a plan for
alternative sources of revenue.
   M.   The development impact fee study sets forth reasonable methodologies
and analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new development on
the City capital facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new development.
   N.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the development impact fee study was
based on actual system improvement costs or reasonable estimates of such costs.
In addition, the development impact fee study uses a fee calculation
methodology that is net of credits for the present value of revenues that will
be generated by new growth and development based on historical funding patterns
and that are anticipated to be available to pay for system improvements,
including taxes, assessments, user fees and intergovernmental transfers.
   O.   The development impact fees described in this chapter are based on the
development impact fee study, and do not exceed the costs of system
improvements for City capital facilities to serve new development that will pay
the development impact fees.
   P.   The facilities for parks and recreation, and fire included in the
calculation of fees in the development impact fee study will benefit all new
residential and nonresidential development throughout the City, and it is
therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the City as a single service area
for purposes of calculating, collecting, and spending the development impact
fees collected from residential and nonresidential development.
   Q.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8208, the City of Bellevue has
adopted a development impact fee for the cost of preparing the capital
improvements element of the City of Bellevue comprehensive plan.
   R.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
development impacts created by each type of development covered by this chapter
and the development impact fees that such development covered by this chapter
and the development impact fees that such development will be required to pay.
   S.   This chapter creates a system by which development impact fees paid by
new development will be used to finance, defray or reimburse a portion of the
costs incurred by the City to construct improvements for City capital
facilities in ways that benefit the development for which each development
impact fee was paid within a reasonable period of time after the development
impact fee is paid, and in conformance with Idaho Code section 67-8210.
   T.   This chapter creates a system under which development impact fees shall
not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any capital facilities, or to
replace or rehabilitate existing improvements, or to pay for routine operation
or maintenance of those facilities.
   U.   This chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8204(19).
   V.   This chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of Idaho Code
title 67, chapter 82, concerning development impact fee ordinances. (Ord. 2021-
03, 3-22-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 5-8-2023)
9-5-1-02: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement
the City of Bellevue comprehensive plan.
   B.   The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new development bears a
proportionate share of the cost of improvements to the City capital facilities;
to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of
improvements to such facilities required to accommodate new development; and to
ensure that funds collected from new development are actually used for
improvements to the City capital facilities in accordance with Idaho Code title
67, chapter 82.
   C.   It is the further intent of this chapter to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of new capital facilities to
new development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by Idaho Code title 67, chapter 82.
   D.   It is not the intent of this chapter to collect any money from any new
development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
City capital facilities created by such new development.
   E.   It is not the intent of this chapter that any monies collected from any
development impact fee deposited in an impact fee account ever be commingled
with monies from a different impact fee account, or ever be used for a
development impact fee component different from that for which the fee was
paid, or ever be used to correct current deficiencies in the City capital
facilities or ever be used to replace, rehabilitate, maintain or operate any
City facility. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended:
               The administration capital facilities account, the buildings and grounds capital
               facilities account, the community development capital facilities account, the
               fire capital facilities account, the library capital facilities account, the
ACCOUNTS:      marshal capital facilities account, the parks capital facilities account, the
               streets capital facilities account, and the capital improvement plan account,
               established as part of the development impact fee trust fund established in
               section
               9-5-11-03 of this chapter.
APPROPRIATE:   To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to use by appropriation or
               other official act of a governmental entity.
BUILDING       The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions pursuant to
PERMIT:        chapter 15.08 of this title, as amended.
CAPITAL        Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
IMPROVEMENTS:  other action, which increases the service capacity of a public facility.
CAPITAL        A plan adopted pursuant to the development impact fee act, Idaho Code section 67-
IMPROVEMENTS   8201 et seq., that identifies capital improvements for which development impact
PLAN:          fees may be used as a funding source.
CHILDCARE      Any business, home or establishment which provides childcare.
FACILITY:
CITY:          The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL:  The City Council of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
               Any person or legal entity undertaking development, including a party that
DEVELOPER:     undertakes the subdivision of property pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-1301
               through 50-1334, as amended.
               Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use
               of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of
DEVELOPMENT:   land, which creates additional demand and need for public facilities or the
               subdivision of property that would permit any change in the use, character or
               appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT    Any written duly authorized document from the City which authorizes the
APPROVAL:      commencement of a development.
               A payment of money imposed as condition of development approval to pay for a
               proportionate share of the costs of system improvements needed to serve
               development. In the context of this chapter, development impact fee shall mean
DEVELOPMENT    one of the eight (8) impact fees defined for the eight (8) City capital
IMPACT FEE:    facilities elements, and development impact fees (in the plural) shall mean all
               eight (8) impact fees (or all of them that apply to the proposed development
               pursuant to section
               9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter). The term does not include the following:
               A. A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
               associated with permits required for development;
               B. Connection or hookup charges;
               C. Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges for
               services provided directly to the development; or
              D. Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the City has
               incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the development if the
               owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for the construction
               or installation of the capital improvements, unless a written agreement is made
               pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8209(3), as amended, for credit or
               reimbursement.
DEVELOPMENT    The Community Development Director of the City of Bellevue, Idaho, or his or her
IMPACT FEE     designee.
ADMINISTRATOR:
               The document entitled "Bellevue Growth Related Capital Improvements Plan and
DEVELOPMENT    Development Impact Fees", dated March 23, 2007, prepared by Richard Caplan and
IMPACT FEE     Associates for the City, that sets forth reasonable methodologies and analyses
STUDY:         for determining the impacts of various types of development on the City capital
               facilities and determines the cost of expansions to those facilities necessary to
               meet the demands created by new development.
               The trust fund established by this chapter that includes a: a) administration
DEVELOPMENT    capital facilities account; b) buildings and grounds capital facilities account;
IMPACT FEE     c) community development capital facilities account; d) fire capital facilities
TRUST FUND OR  account; e) library capital facilities account; f) marshals capital facilities
TRUST FUND:    account; g) parks capital facilities account; h) streets capital facilities
               account; and i) capital improvement plan account.
               A requirement attached to a developmental approval or other governmental action
DEVELOPMENT    approving or authorizing a particular development project, including, but not
REQUIREMENT:   limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
               contribution of goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
EXTRAORDINARY  Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
COSTS:
               An impact which is reasonably determined by the City to: a) result in the need
               for system improvements, the cost of which will significantly exceed the sum of
EXTRAORDINARY  the development impact fees to be generated from the project or the sum agreed to
IMPACT:        be paid pursuant to a development agreement as allowed by Idaho Code section 67-
               8214(2), as amended; or b) result in the need for system improvements which are
               not identified in the capital improvements plan.
FEE PAYER:     The person who pays or is required to pay a development impact fee. A fee payer
               may include a developer.
               Lands, as well as buildings, improvements to land, and related equipment and
               vehicles meeting the definition of capital improvement, used for fire and
FIRE CAPITAL   emergency medical service facilities included in the calculation of the fire/EMS
FACILITIES:    impact fee in the development impact fee study, and specifically including those
               related costs included in the definition of system improvement cost, but not
               including maintenance, operations or improvements that do not expand capacity.
LAND USE       A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
ASSUMPTIONS:   intensities and population in the service area over at least a twenty (20) year
               period.
LEVEL OF       A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for
SERVICE:       public facilities.
               A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
               standards, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
               is eight feet (8') or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length,
               or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and
               which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with
MANUFACTURED/  or without a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, and
MOBILE HOME:   includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained
               in such structure, except that such term shall include any structure which meets
               all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with
               respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by
               the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards
               established under 42 USC section 5401 et seq.
               Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which
MODULAR        is constructed according to the international building codes adopted or any
BUILDING:      amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
               substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
               The sum of the horizontal areas of all floors in a building including basements
NET FLOOR      but not including open unenclosed decks, exterior circulation, common hallways,
AREA:          mechanical equipment rooms, parking areas, common areas, public bathrooms or
               storage areas in basements.
               Open space lands, as well as buildings, improvements to land, and related
               equipment meeting the definition of "capital improvements", as defined in this
PARK CAPITAL   section, used for public parks, recreation, open space and trail facilities
FACILITIES:    included in the calculation of the park impact fee in the development impact fee
               study, and specifically including those related costs included in the definition
               of "system improvement costs", as defined in this section, but not including
               maintenance, operations or improvements that do not expand capacity.
               Lands, as well as buildings, improvements to land, and related equipment and
               vehicles meeting the definition of "capital improvements", as defined in this
MARSHAL        section, used for police facilities included in the calculation of the police
CAPITAL        impact fee in the development impact fee study, and specifically including those
FACILITIES:    related costs included in the definition of "system improvement costs", as
               defined in this section, but not including maintenance, operations or
               improvements that do not expand capacity.
               The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
PRESENT VALUE: contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or
               money.
PROJECT:       A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
               In contrast to system improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities
PROJECT        that are planned and designed to provide service for a particular development
IMPROVEMENTS:  project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
               users of the project.
PROPORTIONATE  That portion of the cost of system improvements determined pursuant to Idaho Code
SHARE:         section 67-8207, which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the
               project.
               A.   Water supply production, treatment, storage and distribution facilities;
               B.   Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities;
               C.   Roads, streets, bridges, sidewalks, and bike paths, including rights of way,
               traffic signals, landscaping and any local components of state or federal
               highways;
PUBLIC         D.   Stormwater collection, retention, detention, treatment and disposal
FACILITIES:    facilities, flood control facilities, and bank and shore protection and
               enhancement improvements;
               E.   Parks, open space and recreation areas, and related capital improvements;
               and
               F.   Public safety facilities, including law enforcement, fire, emergency medical
               and rescue and street lighting facilities.
RECREATIONAL   A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:       camping or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
               drawn by another vehicle.
               Any defined geographic area identified by the City in which specific public
SERVICE AREA:  facilities provide service to development within the areas defined, on the basis
               of sound planning or engineering principles, or both.
               A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable
SERVICE UNIT:  to an individual unit of development calculated in accordance with generally
               accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of capital
               improvements.
               In contrast to project improvements, shall mean capital improvements to public
               facilities which are designed to provide service to a service area including,
SYSTEM         without limitation, the type of improvements described in Idaho Code section 50-
IMPROVEMENTS:  1703, as amended. For the purpose of this chapter, the system improvements are
               the park capital facilities, transportation capital facilities, police capital
               facilities and fire/EMS capital facilities.
               Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of system improvements,
               including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including,
               without limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code section 50-1702(h),
               as amended, to provide additional public facilities needed to service new growth
               and development. For clarification, system improvement costs do not include:
               A.   Construction, acquisition, or expansion of public facilities other than
               capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
               B.   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital improvements;
SYSTEM         C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
IMPROVEMENTS   serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:         environmental or regulatory standards;
               D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding, or replacing existing capital improvements
               to provide better service to existing development;
               E.   Administrative and operating costs of the City unless such costs are
               attributable to development of the capital improvements plan, as provided in
               Idaho Code section 67-8208 as amended; or
               F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
               indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the City to
               finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan.
               Lands, improvements to land, and equipment meeting the definition of capital
               improvement, used for the system of traffic signals and for the widening of
TRANSPORTATION bridges on arterial and collector roads, included in the calculation of the road
FACILITIES:    impact fee in the development impact fee study, and consistent with the capital
               improvements element, and specifically including those related costs included in
               the definition of system improvement costs, but not including maintenance,
               operations or improvements that do not expand capacity. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
 
9-5-3: AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS:
9-5-3-01: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the City's general police power granted to
the City by Idaho Code title 67, chapter 82, and other applicable laws of the
state of Idaho. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-3-02: APPLICABILITY:
Except as otherwise exempted, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any
development within all areas of the City. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-3-03: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Rebuilding the same amount of net floor area of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction.
   B.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the number
of service units. In the event one (1) or more service units are added in a
remodel, a development impact fee shall be calculated based on the net floor
area attributable to the additional service unit(s).
   C.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot, provided the net floor area does
not increase. In the event the net floor area increases, a development impact
fee shall be calculated based on the additional net floor area.
   D.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot.
   E.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units.
   F.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such as
tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the use
creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements.
   G.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the fee payer can demonstrate by documentation, such as
utility bills and tax records, that either: 1) a modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle was legally in place on the
lot or space prior to the effective date hereof; or 2) a development impact fee
has been paid previously for the modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
   H.   Childcare facility.
   I.   Replacing a nonresidential unit with another nonresidential unit on the
same lot, provided the net floor area does not increase. In the event the net
floor area increases, a development impact fee shall be calculated based on the
additional net floor area. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-4: CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES:
9-5-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Accounting Principles: The calculation of a development impact fee
shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or developers within the service
area other than the person paying the fee.
   B.   Levels of Service: A development impact fee shall be calculated on the
basis of levels of service for public facilities adopted in this chapter that
are applicable to existing development as well as new growth and development.
The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or existing
public facilities for which a development impact fee is imposed must be
attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new development. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-6: METHODOLOGY:
   A.   Proportionate Methodology: A development impact fee shall not exceed a
proportionate share of the cost of system improvements determined in accordance
with Idaho Code section 67-8207, as amended. Development impact fees shall be
based on actual system improvement costs or reasonable estimates of such costs.
The amount of the development impact fee shall be calculated using the
methodology contained in the development impact fee study and as summarized in
the schedule in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter.
   B.   Proportionate Share Determination:
      1.   All development impact fees shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the development impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
City in the provision of system improvements to serve the new development. The
proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new development after the
City considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
jurisdiction to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the City and accounted for in the calculation of the development
impact fee:
         a.   The costs of existing system improvements within the service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation, assessments or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements,
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation.
   C.   Nonlisted Uses: If the proposed development is of a type not listed in
section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter, then the City shall apply the development
impact fees applicable to the most nearly comparable type of land use listed in
section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter. The determination as to which type of
development is most nearly comparable to the proposed development shall be made
by referring to traffic generation rates for land uses published by Institute
Of Transportation Engineers, and by identifying that land use listed in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter, whose traffic generation rates are most
comparable to the proposed land use. If no traffic generation rate for the
proposed land use appears in a publication of the Institute Of Transportation
Engineers, or if it is not possible to determine which land use listed in
section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter has the most comparable traffic generation
rates, then the most nearly comparable land use shall be determined by the
Development Impact Fee Administrator based on comparison of other
characteristics of the proposed land use (including employment or occupancy,
the size of the facility, and the amount of parking to be provided with the
characteristics of those land uses listed in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter.
   D.   Mixed Uses: If the development for which a building permit is sought
contains a mix of uses, the development impact fee will be calculated for each
type of development based on net floor area.
   E.   Developer's Election: A developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project's proportionate share of system improvement costs by payment of
development impact fees according to the fee schedule in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter as full and complete payment of the
development project's proportionate share of system improvement costs, except
as provided in Idaho Code section 67-8214(3), as amended. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-
2021)
9-5-7: SCHEDULES:
Development impact fees shall be calculated using the schedule in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter, unless: a) the fee payer requests an
individual assessment pursuant to subsection
9-5-8C of this chapter; or b) the City finds an extraordinary impact for a
proposed development in writing to the fee payer, in which case subsection
9-5-8D of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-8: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Building Permit: Upon submittal of complete building permit plans, the
City shall calculate the development impact fees in accordance with this
chapter within thirty (30) days of submittal.
   B.   Exemption: An exemption must be claimed by the fee payer upon
application for a building permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed
waived by the fee payer. Applications for exemption shall be submitted to and
determined by the City within ninety (90) days.
   C.   Using An Individual Assessment:
      1.   In lieu of calculating the amount of development impact fees by
reference to section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter, a fee payer may request that the amount of
the required development impact fee be determined through an individual
assessment for the proposed development. The individual assessment process
shall permit consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant information
submitted by the fee payer to adjust the amount of the fee. If a fee payer
requests the use of an individual assessment, the fee payer shall be
responsible for retaining a qualified professional to prepare the individual
assessment that complies with the requirements of this chapter, at the fee
payer's expense. The fee payer shall, at the fee payer's expense, bear the
burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the resulting
individual assessment complies with the requirements of this chapter. The fee
payer shall bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that
the resulting individual assessment is a more accurate measure of its
proportionate share of the cost of City capital improvements, based on the
City's adopted levels of service, than the development impact fees that would
otherwise be due pursuant to the schedule set forth in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter.
      2.   Each individual assessment shall be based on the same level of
service standards and unit costs for system improvements used in the
development impact fee study, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost)
methodology, and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions
used.
      3.   An application for an individual assessment may be submitted at any
time that the types and amounts of development in each category identified in
section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter are known. The City shall issue a decision
within thirty (30) days following receipt of a completed application for
individual assessment and supporting information from the applicant, so as not
to unreasonably delay subsequent applications for or issuance of building
permits.
      4.   Each individual assessment shall be submitted to the Development
Impact Fee Administrator, and may be accepted, rejected, or accepted with
modifications by the Development Impact Fee Administrator as the basis for
calculating development impact fees. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or
acceptance with modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is
more accurate measure of demand for the City capital improvements element(s)
created by the proposed development, or the costs of those facilities, than the
applicable fee shown in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter.
      5.   The decision by the Development Impact Fee Administrator on an
application for an individual assessment shall include an explanation of the
calculation of the development impact fee, shall specify the system improvement
(s) for which the development impact fee is intended to be used, and shall
include an explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code section 67-
8207.
      6.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the Development Impact Fee Administrator, then the development
impact fees due under this chapter for such development shall be calculated
according to such individual assessment.
   D.   Extraordinary Impacts:
      1.   If the City determines that a proposed development generates
extraordinary impacts that will result in extraordinary costs, the City will
notify the fee payer of such determination within thirty (30) days after
receipt for a certification pursuant to subsection E of this section, or a
request for a building permit of development approval, whichever occurs first.
Such notice shall include a statement that the potential impacts of such
development on system improvements are not adequately addressed by development
impact fee study, and that a supplemental study at the fee payer's expense will
be required.
      2.   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of extraordinary
impacts include, but are not limited to: a) an indication that traffic
generation from the proposed development or activity will exceed those typical
for a facility or activity of its type; b) an indication that employment
generated by the development or activity will exceed those typical for a
facility or activity of its type; c) an indication the assumptions used in the
development impact fee study underestimate the level of activity or impact on
City capital facilities from the proposed development or activity; or d) an
indication that levels of calls for fire or emergency services from
developments or activities owned or operated by the fee payer or its agents
will exceed assumptions used in the development impact fee study.
      3.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a development
with extraordinary impacts, the City shall meet with the fee payer to discuss
whether the fee payer wants to: a) pay for the supplemental study necessary to
determine the system improvement costs related to the proposed development; or
b) modify the proposal to avoid generating extraordinary impacts; or c)
withdraw the application for certification, building permit or development
approval.
      4.   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required
to document the proposed development's proportionate share of system
improvement costs, then the City and the fee payer shall jointly select an
individual or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The fee
payer shall enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization
to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental
study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless
the fee payer agrees to a longer time.
      5.   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to: a)
pay the proportionate share of system improvement costs documented by the
supplemental study; or b) modify the proposed development to reduce such costs;
or c) withdraw the application. If the fee payer agrees to pay the system
improvement costs documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be
reduced to writing between the City and the fee payer prior to review and
consideration of any application for any development approval or building
permit related to the proposed development.
      6.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the
proportionate share of system improvement costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development
that results in an extraordinary impact.
   E.   Certification: After the development impact fees due for a proposed
development have been calculated pursuant to section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter or the individual assessment, the fee payer
may request the Development Impact Fee Administrator or a designee for a
certification of the amount of development impact fees due for that
development. Within thirty (30) days after receiving such request, the
Development Impact Fee Administrator shall issue a written certification of the
amount of development impact fees due for the proposed development. Such
certification shall establish the development impact fee so long as there is no
material change to the particular project as identified in the individual
assessment application, or the impact fee schedule set forth in section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter. The certification shall include an
explanation of the calculation of the impact fee, including an explanation of
factors considered under Idaho Code section 67-8207 and shall also specify the
system improvement(s) for which the development impact fee is intended to be
used. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-9: CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
9-5-9-01: CREDITS TO BE ISSUED:
When a developer or his or her predecessor in title or interest has constructed
system improvements of the same category as a City capital improvement, or
contributed or dedicated land or money toward the completion of system
improvements of the same category as a City capital improvement, and the City
has accepted such construction, contribution or dedication, the City shall
issue a credit against the development impact fees otherwise due for the same
City capital improvements in connection with the proposed development as set
forth in this
9-5-9. Credit shall be issued regardless of whether the contribution or
dedication to system improvements was required by the City as a condition of
development approval or was offered by the developer and accepted by the City
in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or dedication was
contributed by the developer or by a local improvement district controlled by
the developer. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-9-02: LIMITATIONS:
Credits against development impact fees shall not be given for: a) project
improvements; or b) any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to
in writing by the City prior to commencement of the construction, contribution
or dedication. Credits issued for one City capital improvement may not be used
to reduce development impact fees due for a different capital improvement. No
credits shall be issued for system improvements contributed or dedicated prior
to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-9-03: VALUATION OF CREDIT AT PRESENT VALUE:
   A.   Land: Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the fee payer's
option, be valued at the present value of: 1) one hundred percent (100%) of the
most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records of the County
Assessor; or 2) that fair market value established by a private appraiser
acceptable to the City in an appraisal paid for by the fee payer.
   B.   Improvements: Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall be valued by the City at the present value of such
improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications, and
construction cost estimates submitted by the fee paver to the City. The City
shall determine the amount of credit due based on the information submitted,
or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on
alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable to the City as a more
accurate measure of the value of the offered system improvements to the City.
(Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-9-04: WHEN CREDITS BECOME EFFECTIVE:
   A.   Land: Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective when
the land has been conveyed to the City in a form acceptable to the City, at no
cost to the City, and has been accepted by the City. Upon request of the fee
payer, the City shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit available.
   B.   Improvements: Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall generally become effective when: 1) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the City; 2) a
suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and approved by the
City; and 3) all design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the City and the state of Idaho. Upon request of the fee payer,
the City shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit available. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-9-05: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Request: In order to obtain a credit against development impact fees
otherwise due, a fee payer shall submit a written offer to dedicate to the
Development Impact Fee Administrator for specific parcels of qualifying land or
a written offer to contribute or construct specific system improvements to the
City capital facilities in accordance with all applicable state or City design
and construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit against the
type of development impact fees for which the land dedication or system
improvement is offered. No request for a credit against development impact fees
shall be accepted unless a written offer to dedicate, contribute or construct
has previously been approved in writing.
   B.   Review: After receipt of the request for credit, the Development Impact
Fee Administrator shall review the request and determine whether the land or
system improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of providing City
capital facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the credit. If
the Development Impact Fee Administrator determines that the offered credit
satisfies that criteria, then the credit shall be issued. The City shall
complete its review and determination of an application within thirty (30) days
after receipt of an application for credit. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-9-06: CREDITS EXCEEDING FEE AMOUNTS DUE:
   A.   If the credit due to a fee payer pursuant to sections
9-5-9-01 through
9-5-9-05 of this chapter exceeds the development impact fee that would
otherwise be due from the fee payer pursuant to this chapter (whether
calculated through section
9-5-17, Exhibit A of this chapter or through an independent assessment), the
fee payer may choose to receive such credit in the form of either: 1) a credit
against future development impact fees due for the same capital improvements;
or 2) a reimbursement from development impact fees paid by future development
that impacts the system improvements contributed or dedicated by the fee payer.
   B.   Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the fee payer, the City
shall be under no obligation to use any City funds, other than development
impact fees paid by other development for the same City capital improvements,
to reimburse the fee payer for any credit in excess of development impact fees
due. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-9-07: WRITTEN AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
If credit or reimbursement is due to the fee payer pursuant to this section
9-5-9, the City shall enter into a written agreement with the fee payer,
negotiated in good faith, prior to the contribution, dedication or funding of
the system improvements giving rise to the credit. The agreement shall provide
for the amount of credit or the amount, time and form of reimbursement, and
shall have a term not exceeding ten (10) years. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-10: REFUNDS:
9-5-10-01: DUTY TO REFUND:
Development impact fees shall be refunded to the fee payer, or to a successor
in interest, in the following circumstances:
   A.   Service is available but never provided;
   B.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured home,
is denied, or abandoned;
   C.   The fee payer pays a development impact fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the City
was entitled to receive; or
   D.   The City has collected a development impact fee and has failed to
appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to section
9-5-10-02 of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-10-02: FAILURE TO COMMENCE CONSTRUCTION OR ENCUMBER TRUST FUNDS:
Any development impact fees paid shall be refunded if the City has failed to
commence construction of system improvements in accordance with this chapter,
or to appropriate funds for such construction, within eight (8) years after the
date on which such fee was paid. Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of
record of the parcel for which the development impact fees were paid. The City
may hold development impact fees for longer than eight (8) years if it
identifies in writing: a) a reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer
than eight (8) years; and b) an anticipated date by which the fees will be
expended, but in no event greater than eleven (11) years from the date they
were collected. If the City complies with the previous sentence, then any
development impact fees identified in such writing shall be refunded to the fee
payer if the City has failed to commence construction of system improvements in
accordance with this chapter, or to appropriate funds for such construction on
or before the date identified in such writing. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-10-03: NO REFUND DUE FOR SUBSEQUENT REDUCTION IN SIZE OF DEVELOPMENT:
After a development impact fee has been paid pursuant to this chapter and after
a certificate of occupancy has been issued, no refund of any part of such fee
shall be made if the project for which the fee was paid is later demolished,
destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or reconfigured so as to reduce the
size of the project. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-10-04: INTEREST:
Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half (1/2) the legal rate
provided for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
originally paid. (Ord. 985 § 1, 2007; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-10-05: TIMING:
The City shall make a determination of whether a refund is due within thirty
(30) days after receipt of a written request for a refund from the owner of
record of the property for which the fee was paid. When the right to a refund
exists, the City shall send the refund to the owner of record within ninety
(90) days after the City determines that a refund is due. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-
2021)
9-5-11: COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION OF IMPACT FEES:
9-5-11-01: PAYMENT OF FEES:
Development impact fees shall be paid to the City at the following times:
   A.   If a building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit is
required, then at the time such permit is issued;
   B.   If no building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
   C.   At such other time as the developer and the City have agreed upon in
writing. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-11-02: DEPOSIT OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES:
All monies paid by a fee payer pursuant to this chapter shall be identified as
development impact fees and shall be promptly deposited in the appropriate
account. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-11-03: ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST FUND AND ACCOUNTS:
A development impact fee trust fund (the "trust fund") is hereby established
for the purpose of ensuring that the development impact fees collected pursuant
to this chapter are used to address impacts reasonably attributable to new
development for which the development impact fees are paid. The trust fund
shall be divided into the accounts. The trust fund shall be maintained in an
interest-bearing account. The interest earned on each account shall not be
governed by Idaho Code section 57-127, as amended, but shall be considered
funds of the account and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses of
funds as the development impact fees on which interest is generated. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-11-04: FIRST IN/FIRST OUT:
Monies in each account shall be spent in the order collected, on a first in/
first out basis. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-11-05: DEPOSIT AND MANAGEMENT OF TRUST FUND:
   A.   Deposit: All development impact fees collected by the City shall be
promptly deposited into the appropriate account.
   B.   Maintenance Of Records: The City shall maintain and keep accurate
financial records for each account that shall show the source and disbursement
of all revenues, that shall account for all monies received, that shall ensure
that the disbursement of funds from each account shall be used solely and
exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the capital
improvements plan, and that shall provide an annual accounting for each
development impact fee account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12: USE OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES:
9-5-12-01: ADMIN CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the admin development impact fees shall be used only
to plan for and acquire or construct admin capital facilities, or to pay debt
service on any portion of any future general obligation or revenue bond issue
or similar instrument used to finance the acquisition or construction of admin
capital facilities within the City, or to reimburse the City for such costs.
(Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-02: BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the buildings and grounds development impact fees
shall be used only to plan for and acquire or construct buildings and grounds
capital facilities, or to pay debt service on any portion of any future general
obligation or revenue bond issue or similar instrument used to finance the
acquisition or construction of buildings and grounds capital facilities within
the City, or to reimburse the City for such costs. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-03: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the community development impact fees shall be used
only to plan for and acquire or construct community development capital
facilities, or to pay debt service on any portion of any future general
obligation or revenue bond issue or similar instrument used to finance the
acquisition or construction of community development capital facilities within
the City, or to reimburse the City for such costs. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-04: FIRE CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the fire development impact fees shall be used only
to plan for and acquire or construct fire capital facilities, or to pay debt
service on any portion of any future general obligation or revenue bond issue
or similar instrument used to finance the acquisition or construction of fire
capital facilities within the City, or to reimburse the City for such costs.
(Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-05: LIBRARY CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the library development impact fees shall be used
only to plan for and acquire or construct library capital facilities, or to pay
debt service on any portion of any future general obligation or revenue bond
issue or similar instrument used to finance the acquisition or construction of
library capital facilities within the City, or to reimburse the City for such
costs. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-06: MARSHAL CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the marshal development impact fees shall be used
only to plan for and acquire or construct marshal capital facilities, or to pay
debt service on any portion of any future general obligation or revenue bond
issue or similar instrument used to finance the acquisition or construction of
marshal capital facilities within the City, or to reimburse the City for such
costs. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-07: PARK CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the park development impact fees shall be used only
to plan for and acquire or construct park capital facilities, or to pay debt
service on any portion of any future general obligation or revenue bond issue
or similar instrument used to finance the acquisition or construction of park
capital facilities within the City, or to reimburse the City for such costs.
(Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-08: STREETS CAPITAL FACILITIES:
The monies collected from the streets development impact fees shall be used
only to plan for and acquire or construct streets capital facilities, or to pay
debt service on any portion of any future general obligation or revenue bond
issue or similar instrument used to finance the acquisition or construction of
streets capital facilities within the City, or to reimburse the City for such
costs. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-09: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN REIMBURSEMENT:
The monies collected from the capital improvement plan development impact fees
shall be used only to reimburse the City for the preparation of the development
impact fee study. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-12-10: LIMITATION ON USE:
Development impact fees shall not be used for a purpose other than system
improvement costs to create additional improvements to serve new growth, or for
reimbursement of the cost of the development impact fee study. The expenditure
of development impact fees is prohibited except in accordance with the
requirements of Idaho Code section 67-8210, as amended. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-
2021)
9-5-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
9-5-13-01: APPEALS:
   A.   Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay a development impact
fee, or that claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or
credit under this chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision made by the
Development Impact Fee Administrator in applying this chapter, may appeal such
decision to the City Council. The fee payer shall have the burden of proving by
clear and convincing evidence that the decision was in error.
   B.   In order to pursue the appeal described in subsection A of this
section, the fee payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
Development Impact Fee Administrator within thirty (30) days after the date of
the decision, or the date on which the fee payer submitted a payment of
development impact fees under protest, whichever is later. Such written
application shall include a statement describing why the fee payer believes
that the decision was in error, together with copies of any documents that the
fee payer believes support the claim.
   C.   The City Council shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after
receipt of a written notice of appeal. The fee payer shall have a right to be
present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The Development
Impact Fee Administrator who made the decision under appeal or his or her
representative shall likewise have the right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the City
Council in considering the appeal shall be whether: 1) the decision or
interpretation made by the Development Impact Fee Administrator; or 2) the
alternative decision or interpretation offered by the fee payer, more
accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development in the City
pay its proportionate share of the costs of system improvements to City capital
facilities necessary to serve new development and whether this chapter has been
correctly applied. The City Council shall issue a decision upholding,
reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within thirty (30) days
after hearing the appeal. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-13-02: PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST:
A fee payer may pay a development impact fee under protest in order not to
delay in the issuance of a building permit. A fee payer making a payment under
protest shall not be stopped from exercising the right to appeal provided
herein, nor shall such fee payer be stopped from receiving a refund of any
amount deemed to have been illegally collected. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-13-03: MEDIATION:
   A.   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with the City regarding a
development impact fee that is or may be due for a proposed development
pursuant to this chapter, may enter into a voluntary agreement with the City to
subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the fee payer and the City.
   B.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a timely
appeal pursuant to section
9-5-13-01 of this chapter, or as an alternative to such appeal; provided, that
the request for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a
timely appeal could be filed pursuant to section
9-5-13-01 of this chapter.
   C.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section
9-5-13-01.
   D.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be shared
equally by the fee payer and the City, and a written agreement regarding the
payment of such costs shall be executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
   E.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues between the
parties, the fee payer retains all rights to seek relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS:
9-5-14-01: REVIEW AND MODIFICATION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN:
Unless the City Council deems some other period is appropriate, the City shall,
at least once every five (5) years commencing from the date of the original
adoption of the capital improvements plan, review the development potential and
update the capital improvements plan in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Idaho Code section 67-8206, as amended. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-14-02: ANNUAL REVIEW:
The City shall annually adopt a capital budget. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-14-03: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the City shall prepare an annual report:
a) describing the amount of all development impact fees collected,
appropriated, or spent during the preceding year by category of public
facility; and b) describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources
other than development impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system
improvement during the preceding year by category of public facility. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-14-04: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE REVISIONS:
The City Council shall consider the Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee
recommended revision(s) to this chapter at least once every twelve (12) months.
The Committee's recommendations and the City Council's actions are intended to
ensure that the benefits to a development paying development impact fees are
equitable, in that the fee charged to the development shall not exceed a
proportionate share of system improvements costs, and that the procedures for
administering development impact fees remain efficient. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-
2021)
9-5-15: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION:
When any development impact fee is due pursuant to this chapter, or pursuant to
the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer and the City, and such
development impact fee has not been paid in a timely manner, the City may
exercise any or all of the following powers, in any combination, to enforce the
collection of the development impact fee:
   A.   Withhold building permits or other City approvals related to the
development for which the development impact fee is due until all development
impact fees due have been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or
suspend a building permit.
   B.   Withhold utility services from the development for which the
development impact fee is due until all development impact fees due have been
paid.
   C.   Add interest to the development impact fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104, as amended, plus five
percent (5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the development
impact fee was due until paid in full.
   D.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total development impact
fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per month
beginning on the date at which the payment of the development impact fee was
due until paid in full.
   E.   Impose a lien for failure to timely pay a development impact fee
following the procedures contained in Idaho Code title 45, chapter 5. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
9-5-16-01: DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City from requiring a developer to
construct reasonable project improvements in conjunction with a development
project. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-02: PRIVATE AGREEMENTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit private
agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho Transportation
Department and governmental entities in regard to the construction or
installation of system improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for system improvement costs incurred by a developer, including interproject
transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project improvements
which are used or shared by more than one development project. If it can be
shown that a proposed development has a direct impact on a public facility
under the jurisdiction of the Idaho Transportation Department, then the
agreement shall include a provision for the allocation of development impact
fees collected from the developer for the improvement of the public facility by
the Idaho Transportation Department. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-03: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development which
results in an extraordinary impact. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-04: REDUCTION IN LEVELS OF SERVICE:
In this chapter shall obligate the City to approve any development request
which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service below minimum
acceptable levels established in this chapter. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-05: ADDITIONAL RIGHTS NOT CREATED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional right to
develop real property or diminish the City in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-06: EMINENT DOMAIN:
Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the power of
eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or procedures
authorized in Idaho Code for local improvement districts or general obligation
bond issues. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-07: ANNEXATION:
Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the City to annex
property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of project or system
improvement costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-08: ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF REVENUE:
The City shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue, which shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, plans generated during City's
annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing,
implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees and other forms
of revenue. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-09: PERMITS ISSUED PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a project
for which a complete application for a building permit has been received by the
City prior to the effective date hereof shall not be subject to the development
impact fees imposed by this chapter. If the resulting building permit is later
revised or replaced after the effective date hereof, and the new building
permit reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of
units more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the original
building permit, then development impact fees may be charged on the difference
in density, intensity, development size or number of units between the original
and the revised or replacement building permit. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-10: MONIES NOT EXPENDED:
Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific system
improvements within such capital improvements program and not expended pursuant
to this chapter or refunded pursuant to this chapter shall be retained in the
same account until the next fiscal year. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-11: ERRORS:
If the City discovers an error in the development impact fee study that results
in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share of system
improvement costs on any proposed development, the City shall: a) adjust the
development impact fee to collect no more than a proportionate share; or b)
discontinue the collection of any development impact fees until the error is
corrected by ordinance. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-12: RECALCULATION:
If development impact fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake or
misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a fee
payer shall be refunded by the City within thirty (30) days after the City's
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid.
Any amounts underpaid by the fee payer shall be paid to the City within thirty
(30) days after the City's acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest
at the legal rate provided for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104 from the date on
which the fee was paid. In the case of an underpayment to the City, the City
may withhold issuance of the building permits or development approvals for the
project for which the development impact fee was paid until such underpayment
is corrected, and if amounts owed to the City are not paid within such thirty
(30) day period, the City may also revoke any building permits, or development
approvals issued in reliance on the previous payment of such development impact
fee and refund such fee to the fee payer. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-13: ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
The Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee established during the
preparation of the development impact fee study shall continue in existence,
and shall be composed of not fewer than five (5) members appointed by City
Council. Two (2) or more members shall be active in the business of
development, building or real estate. The Committee shall serve in an advisory
capacity and has been established to: a) assist the City in adopting land use
assumptions; b) review the capital improvements plan, and proposed amendments,
and file written comments; c) monitor and evaluate implementation of the
capital improvements plan; d) file periodic reports, at least annually, with
respect to the capital improvements plan and report to the City any perceived
inequities in implementing the plan or imposing the development impact fees;
and e) advise the City of the need to update or revise the land use
assumptions, the capital improvements plan, and development impact fees. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-14: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months or a fine
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or both. Knowingly furnishing
false information to any official of the City charged with the administration
of this chapter, including, without limitation, the furnishing of false
information regarding the expected size, use or impacts from a proposed
development, shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-16-15: CONSTRUCTION:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Idaho
development impact fee act and the City Council may be fully carried out. (Ord.
2021-03, 3-22-2021)
9-5-17: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE:
   Exhibit A:
   Proposed Residential Development Impact Fee By Unit Size (In Square Feet)
Housing Unit Under 1,000 1,001 -  1,601 - 2,200 2,201 - 2,800 2,801 or more
Size         SF          1,600 SF SF            SF            SF
Housing Unit  Under 1,000 1,001 -   1,601 - 2,200 2,201 - 2,800 2,801 or more
Size          SF          1,600 SF  SF            SF            SF
Department
Administratio $75.35      $150.70   $188.38       $207.21       $226.05
n
Buildings/Gr  $163.32     $326.63   $408.29       $449.12       $489.95
ounds
Community     $183.99     $367.99   $459.99       $505.99       $551.98
Development
Fire Services $310.71     $621.42   $776.77       $854.45       $932.12
Library       $10.06      $20.12    $25.15        $27.66        $30.18
Marshal       $3.29       $6.57     $8.21         $9.04         $9.86
Parks         $30.14      $60.28    $75.35        $82.89        $90.42
Streets       $131.22     $262.44   $328.06       $360.86       $393.67
Total Impact  $908.00     $1,816.00 $2,270.00     $2,497.00     $2,724.00
Fee/Unit
 
Assumptions:
   Under 1,000 SF = 1 person per unit
   1,001 to 1,600 SF = 2 persons per unit
   1,601 to 2,200 SF = 2.5 persons per unit
   2,201 to 2,800 SF = 2.75 persons per unit
   2,801 or more SF = 3 persons per unit
   Proposed Business/Industrial And Office Development Impact Fee
   (In Square Feet)
DIF per 1,000 SF Business/Retail Light Industrial Office
DIF per 1,000 SF   Business/Retail   Light Industrial     Office
Administration     $49.86            $41.63               $83.02
Buildings/Ground s $108.07           $90.24               $179.93
Community          $121.75           $101.66              $202.71
Development
Fire Services      $43.39            $36.23               $72.25
Library            $6.66             $5.56                $11.08
Marshal            $2.17             $1.82                $3.62
Parks              $19.94            $16.65               $33.21
Streets            $598.85           $500.04              $997.09
Total Impact Fee/  $951.00 per 1,000 $794.00 per 1,000 SF $1,583.00 per 1,000
per 1,000 SF       SF                                     SF
 
(Ord. 2021-03, 3-22-2021)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Statute Authority; Purpose
10-1-3: Application And Interpretation
10-1-4: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited to as the BELLEVUE ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-1-2: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
This title is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code section
67-6501 et seq., and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution. It is
enacted for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, and general welfare; to conserve and protect property and property
values; to secure the most appropriate use of lands; to control the density of
population; to prevent undue traffic congestion; to preserve the scenic and
aesthetic values of the City; to assure the economical provision of adequate
public improvements; and to implement the policies set forth in the Bellevue
Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be minimum requirements.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Whenever the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted rules, regulations ordinances, or resolutions may apply, the most
restrictive rules or those imposing the higher standards shall govern.
   C.   Separability: Should any section or provision of this title be declared
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of this title as a whole or any part
hereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-1-4: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
This title shall be interpreted to equally protect each citizen from the undue
encroachment of his private property by his neighbors' use of his own private
property. Each citizen shall have the maximum use of his property without
placing undue burden upon his neighbor. Every resident of the City shall at all
times have the right to appear in person or by his agent before the Council to
freely petition for the relief of an alleged burden created by this title, and
to appeal any decision of the commission pursuant to the procedure stated
herein. The enforcement of this title shall apply equally to each person and
property in similar circumstances. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADU (ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT): An attached or detached dwelling which is
secondary in nature to a primary general residential unit, transitional unit,
business unit, light industrial unit, light industrial/mixed business unit and
limited business/residential unit, that cannot be sold separately from the
primary unit. An accessory dwelling unit provides complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent facilities for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation on the same lot as the primary unit.
Accessory dwelling units may be allowed in conjunction with a general
residential, transitional, business, light industrial, light industrial/mixed
business and limited business/residential unit and are not to be constructed as
an addition to a duplex or multi-family unit. Accessory dwelling unit sizes for
the General Residential, Transitional, and Limited Business/Residential
Districts shall comply with table A depicted below. Accessory dwelling units
shall be subject to design review application approval. Accessory dwelling
units shall be assessed for applicable water and sewer connections and a
monthly user fee equal to a primary residence.
   TABLE A
 
Lot Size                        Accessory Dwelling Unit Size
                                (Gross Square Feet)
6,000 sq. ft. - 7,999 sq. ft.   600
8,000 sq. ft. - 9,999 sq. ft.   700
10,000 sq. ft. - 19,999 sq. ft. 850
20,000 sq. ft. - 1 acre         1,000
Over 1 acre                     1,200
 
ACCESSORY USE: A use or structure subordinate to the principal use on the same
lot or premises and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the permitted
use of the principal building. Accessory uses are authorized uses which do not
require a permit. There shall be no accessory use in the Business, Light
Industrial, and Limited Business/Residential Zoning Districts without an
existing permitted primary use on the property in question.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having an interest in real property which may be affected
by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing development.
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES: Refers to the growing of timber or crops, including
grazing, horticulture, floriculture, nurseries, fruit trees, berry bushes, and
the necessary accessory uses for processing, packing, treating, or storing the
produce. The operation of any such accessory use shall be secondary to that of
normal crop or timber growing and shall not include feedlots, slaughterhouses,
rendering plants, or sawmills.
ANIMAL HOSPICE: A facility where lost animals are temporarily housed until
permanent homes are either found for them or they are destroyed.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A place used for the care, grooming, diagnosis, and treatment
of sick or injured animals, and for the care of those who are in need of
medical or surgical attention, including overnight accommodations for
recuperation and observation purposes.
APPRECIABLE DEGRADATION: Any dust, odor, fumes, detectable pollution, noise or
flashing light which is perceptible without instruments more than two hundred
feet (200') from the boundaries of the construction or maintenance work.
ASPHALT BATCH PLANT: A facility which manufactures asphalt.
AUTO WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises whereon currently nonlicensed motor
vehicles not in operating condition are standing more than sixty (60) days, or
on which such motor vehicles or parts thereof are dismantled or stored.
AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR: An enclosed facility which provides for the maintenance of
vehicles, RVs, ATVs, and snowmobiles, including, but not limited to, engine
repairs, transmission work, body fender repair, painting and detailing.
BANK: The ordinary high water level of a stream, river, lake or impoundment
which, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, shall be presumed to be the
edge of the vegetation growing along the shore.
BUILDING: Any structure used or designed to be used for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy per City adopted International Building Code.
BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL: A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or horticultural products, but not
for the purpose of human habitation or processing of agricultural products.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The total square footage contained by the exterior building
foundation, plus all horizontal projections which constitute a "building" as
defined in this section, but not including roof overhangs that are three feet
(3') or less or uncovered decks less than thirty inches (30") above grade.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date hereof, or
one for which a valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective
date hereof.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: That area of a building that is within the perimeter of the
foundation or the exterior walls on the building and including, without
limitation, all enclosed or covered portions, such as attached garages,
carports, decks, porches, solariums and similar enclosed extensions.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: Buildings in which permitted uses are conducted on a lot.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line that requires all buildings to be set
back a certain distance from property boundary lines or lot lines, measured
from the drip line of the building, not the wall or foundation, to the boundary
line or lot line.
BULK REQUIREMENTS: The combination of land use regulations that establishes the
maximum size of a building and its location on the lot, including, without
limitation:
   A.   Building setback, height, and size requirements for the particular
zoning district the building is located in; and
   B.   The size and shape of the building and other structures in relation to
the neighboring buildings and structures.
BUSINESS USE: The purchase, sale or other retail transaction, indoor or
outdoor, involving the handling or disposition of any article, service,
substance or commodity for livelihood or profit, or the ownership or management
of office buildings, offices, recreation or amusement enterprises or the
maintenance and use of business offices by professionals and tradespeople
rendering services.
CAMPGROUND: A facility where camper/recreational vehicles may stop or park
overnight for short periods of time.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead,
including crematoria, mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection with
and within the boundaries of such cemetery.
CITY: City of Bellevue, Idaho.
COMMERCIAL USE: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling
or disposition of any article, service, substance, or commodity for livelihood
or profit, or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices,
recreation or amusement enterprises, or the maintenance and use of offices by
professionals and tradespeople rendering services.
COMMISSION: The Bellevue City Planning and Zoning Commission.
COMMUTER RIDE FACILITY, PRIVATE AND PUBLIC: Land and/or structures used twenty
four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week for the parking and storing of
commuter vans, buses, associated patron vehicle parking and associated patron
customer services.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Bellevue Comprehensive Land Use Plan, as amended from
time to time.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use
permit.
CONTRACTOR'S OFFICE: The business office and shop for building contractors,
carpenters, plumbers, electricians, and similar tradespeople rendering services
to the public.
CONTRACTOR'S STORAGE YARD: Indoor or outdoor storage of building materials and
equipment owned by the contractor and commonly used in the construction
business, provided the yard is entirely screened from all streets and other
public ways by a solid fence six feet (6') in height or landscaping of at least
eight foot (8') tall evergreen trees placed no more than every fifteen feet
(15') apart with an automatic irrigation system installed to each.
COUNCIL: The Common Council of Bellevue, Idaho.
DENSITY: A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
DENSITY, GROSS: The total area of a development, including public and private
rights-of-way, divided by the total number of dwelling units.
DENSITY, NET: The number of dwelling units allowed per acre in a subdivision
after subtracting the land occupied by public or private rights-of-way.
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS: Bulk and setback regulations.
DUPLEX: A building which contains two (2) dwelling units and two (2) separate
kitchens.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A structure or portion thereof designed for and used as
the living quarters for two (2) or more families or housekeeping groups.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A structure designed for and used as the living
quarters for a single-family or housekeeping group and which contains no more
than one kitchen. A mobile home shall not be considered a single-family
dwelling unless it is a unit from which the wheels and tongue have been
removed, which is on a permanent foundation, which satisfies the Building Code,
and which meets the definition of and requirements for manufactured housing set
forth in this title. Manufactured housing shall not be considered a single-
family dwelling unless it meets definition of and requirements for manufactured
housing set forth in this title.
DWELLING UNIT: A single building or part thereof providing complete independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation.
EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest in real property which gives the holder of
such interest the right to use some part, or all, of the real property of
another.
EXTRACTION: Removal and processing of any mineral; mining, quarrying,
separating, or cleaning mineral resources.
FEEDLOT: An open area where domesticated livestock, which have been purchased
from other ranches, are grouped together for intensive feeding purposes prior
to their sale for slaughter.
FLOOD OF ONE HUNDRED YEAR FREQUENCY: A flood, the magnitude of which has a one
percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, as
determined by probability analysis of historical hydrological data.
FLOODWAY: The channel, watercourse, or portion of the floodplain adjoining the
channel which is reasonably required to carry and discharge the bulk of the
floodwaters of any river or stream, with a maximum allowable rise of one foot
(1') due to potential building encroachment.
GRAVEL OR SHALE PIT: Any point where stone, sand, gravel or other mineral
resources are removed, extracted, crushed or stockpiled.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The square footage within the building footprint plus the
square footage of additional floors measured from the exterior of the walls.
GROUPED RETAIL TRADE: A combination of two (2) or more individual retail trades
(e.g., a shopping center)
HAZARDOUS AREA OR DISTRICT: A parcel of land that is determined to be
susceptible to physical hazards such as flooding, avalanche, geologic
instability, steep slopes, or low flying aircraft.
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USE: Any manufacturing, processing, or testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power, where the byproducts of such use
include noise, smoke, odor, glare, gas, vibration, dust, light, or traffic
which may have a detrimental effect on neighboring property.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance measured at any point from the
highest point of the roof directly to the lowest point of natural grade along
the building foundation perimeter prior to any site excavation, grading or
filling or to the lowest point of the grade existing as of the effective date
hereof, whichever is lowest. This definition shall not apply to flagpoles,
lightning rods, weather vanes, antennas or chimneys, but not chases constructed
with regard thereto.
HIGH WATER MARK: See definition of bank.
HOME OCCUPATION: Self-employment by the inhabitant in a dwelling, which is
clearly incidental and secondary to its use as a dwelling.
HOSPITAL: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of
facilities for the medical or surgical care of patients, but distinguished from
a nursing home by offering primarily short term rather than long term care.
HOUSE TRAILER: Shall mean any device which is built on a permanent chassis,
designed to be occupied as a dwelling unit, drawn by another motor vehicle, and
is not required to have a State license.
HOUSEKEEPING GROUP: A group of unrelated persons living together.
INDIVIDUAL RETAIL TRADE: Any retail business or business allowed in an
applicable zoning district that: a) shares check stands or storage areas; or b)
shares management; or c) is owned, leased, possessed or otherwise controlled,
in any manner, directly or indirectly, by the same or different individual(s)
or entity(ies), including, without limitation, corporation(s), partnership(s),
limited liability company(ies) or trust(s) where:
   A.   Such individuals or entities have a controlling ownership or
contractual right with other individuals or entities; or
   B.   The same individual(s) or entity(ies) acts in any manner as an
employee, owner, partner, agent, stockholder, director, member, officer or
trustee of the entity(ies), and is located within one or more separate
buildings or structures within three hundred feet (300') of one another.
JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, dismantled, stored, or hauled.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which six (6) or more domesticated animals are
housed, groomed, bred, boarded, or trained in return for compensation, or sold,
and which may offer incidental medical treatment.
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES: Warehousing, manufacturing, and/or processing of goods
and materials which do not emit offensive odor, dust, smoke, glare, gas, light,
noise, or vibration which cannot be confined to the site itself. Wholesaling
will be allowed as a light industrial use only if the items are manufactured on
site and are not for sale as retail merchandise to the general public.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract, or other contiguous land area.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot exclusive of street and road easements.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner
lot, only one street property line shall be considered the front lot line, and
the shorter street frontage shall be considered the front lot line, unless
determined otherwise by the Administrator based on the orientation and layout
of the lot and surrounding lots in order to have a uniform front lot line for
all such lots.
LOT LINE, REAR: The property line opposite the front lot line. For lots in
blocks containing an alley, the rear lot line shall be the property line
dividing the lot from the alley.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than the front lot line and the rear lot
line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the Office of
the County Recorder; or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the effective date hereof;
or a lot recorded as part of the official plat of the City of Bellevue.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A structure constructed after June 15, 1976, according to
HUD/HFA mobile home construction and safety standards, transportable in one or
more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in
width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is
three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without a
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes
the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained
therein; except, that the term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this definition, except the size requirements and, with respect
to which the manufacturer, has filed all certifications required by the
Secretary of HUD and complies with the standards established under 42 USC 5401,
et seq., and all applicable laws of the State of Idaho and the City of
Bellevue, Idaho.
MECHANICAL AREAS: Those spaces within a building devoted exclusively to
furnaces/heating systems, cooling systems, elevators, walk-in freezers and
similar systems, which are not habitable spaces.
MEZZANINE: An intermediate level or levels between the floor and ceiling of any
story of a building with a floor area of not more than one-third (1/3) of the
area of the room or space in which the level or levels are located. Such
mezzanines shall be part of the calculation of the gross floor area of a
building.
MOBILE HOME: A single-family dwelling which may be transported on flatbed or
other trailers, which arrives on a site complete and ready for occupancy except
for minor assembly operations, location on jacks or foundation, and connection
to utilities, and which may be disassembled and moved to another location. A
mobile recreational or camper vehicle specifically designed for highway travel
on its own wheels shall not be considered a mobile home.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed for mobile home residential
use.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings which contain: a) separate sleeping
accommodations, each with its own exterior entrance, offered for rent to the
traveling public on a nightly basis; and b) has an on site office with a person
in charge twenty four (24) hours per day.
NET FLOOR AREA: The floor area square footage of that portion of a building
consistently used by customers, patrons and employees of the use. Net floor
area shall not include areas used exclusively for kitchens, hallways,
elevators, bulk storage and freezer areas, employee break areas, restrooms, and
mechanical rooms. Net floor area shall be calculated for the entire building
and each portion thereof.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: Any building existing at the effective date hereof, or
any amendment hereto, which does not conform to the use regulations of this
title, or any amendment hereto.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any use existing at the effective date hereof, or any
amendment hereto, which does not conform to the use regulations of this title,
or any amendment hereto.
NURSERY, COMMERCIAL: A combination of land, buildings, and structures for the
sale of live trees, plants, shrubs, or gardening products, or landscaping
services.
NURSERY FOR CHILDREN: A facility charging a fee to provide care for preschool
age children; includes daycare centers.
NURSERY, OUTDOOR: A farm or plantation growing trees, shrubs, and plants
intended for transplanting elsewhere, whose commercial use is limited to the
sale of those mentioned above actually grown on the premises.
NURSING HOME: A facility for the care and treatment of more than three (3)
elderly patients; includes rest homes and retirement homes.
OFF STREET LOADING AREA: An open, hard surfaced tract of land, other than a
street or public way, the principal use of which is for motor vehicle standing,
loading, and unloading.
OFF STREET PARKING: An open area, other than a street or public way, for the
temporary location of motor vehicles.
100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The low land near the channel of a river, street, or other
body of water which has been or may be covered by the water of the flood of one
hundred (100) year frequency, as established by the engineering practices of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
OPEN SPACE: A land or water area devoid of buildings, streets, or other
physical structures.
OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL USE: Recreational uses not requiring buildings or
structures.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL FACILITY: Facilities such as golf courses, marinas,
shooting ranges, rod and gun clubs, and dude ranches whose use is primarily
outdoor rather than indoor recreation, for which buildings are incidental and
accessory.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
or other entity having proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided. A
leasehold interest is excluded from such proprietary interest.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITY, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE: A parcel of land located in the
Light Industrial District essential to being utilized for parking of unattended
vehicles for an unlimited number of days and hours, and cycling of commuter
vans and buses. This conditional use may be allowed only on lands zoned Light
Industrial, and such use shall be set back a minimum of two hundred fifty feet
(250') from all Main Street/Highway 75 rights- of-way.
PERMITTED USE: An authorized use in a particular zone district which does not
require a permit but which is subject to the restrictions particular to that
district.
PERSONAL SERVICES: A commercial enterprise which primarily offers services to
the general public such as, without limitation, barbershops, beauty salons,
shoe repair, watch repair, and similar activities; also referred to as "repair
and personal services".
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Structure for the use and benefit of the community limited
to a school, hospital, or cultural building.
PUBLIC UTILITY AND PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITIES: Structures essential to
furnishing the public with electric power, gas, water supply, water treatment,
services, including power plants or substations, water treatment plants or
pumping stations, fire stations or police stations.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, fifth-
wheel trailer, a park model recreational vehicle (as defined by Idaho Code,
Titles 39 and 49), converted bus, van or other vehicle, or camping trailer that
is designed and used for temporary living quarters. The RV may be under its own
power or be mounted or drawn by another vehicle. In no case shall a
recreational vehicle be considered a dwelling.
RETREAT: A building or complex of buildings which may include overnight
accommodations and kitchen facilities, specifically intended to provide an
opportunity to individuals or groups of people for one or more of the
following: spiritual renewal, a change of pace from normal daily routines,
post-professional educational training, educational seminars, professional
counseling, or pursuit of the arts.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land dedicated or acquired for use as a public
thoroughfare, which normally includes streets, sidewalks, and other public
utilities or service areas.
STREET: A right-of-way which provides access to adjacent properties and that
has been officially accepted. Street shall include the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, and place.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or
more parts for the purpose of sale, lease, or building development, whether
immediate or in the future.
TOURIST HOMES: Establishments located in traditionally residential structures
which provide short term occupancy (less than 30 continuous days) to the
traveling public; also referred to as "bed and breakfast inns".
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT: A planned project of two (2) single-family units with a
common adjoining wall, each unit being separated from the adjoining unit by a
one hour fire resistant wall or walls extending from the basement floor to the
roof along the dividing townhouse sublot line, each unit having its own access
to the outside, and no unit located over another unit in part or in whole. All
townhouse developments shall be platted under the procedures contained in the
subdivision ordinance in effect and shall be required to obtain design review
approval prior to building permit issuance. There shall be separate water and
sewer connections for each unit.
TOWNHOUSE SUBLOTS: Minimum six thousand (6,000) square foot lots resulting from
platting a townhouse development. Sublots shall not be buildable for structures
other than a townhouse unit as defined herein. Platting of sublots shall follow
the procedures set forth in the subdivision ordinance and other applicable
codes in effect.
Each townhouse unit may have a detached garage, and it must be sited on the
same townhouse sublot as the residential unit.
TOWNHOUSE UNIT: One or more rooms, including a bathroom and a single kitchen,
designed for or occupied as a unit by one family for living and cooking
purposes, located in a townhouse development on a platted townhouse sublot.
TRAILER: Any unit operated under its own power or drawn by or mounted on
another vehicle that is designed for or used as a temporary living quarter.
This definition includes, without limitation, a travel trailer, camping
trailer, truck camper, fifth-wheel camper, motor home, and recreational
vehicle.
TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES: Roads, parking areas, turnarounds, bike paths, horse
trails, ski or scenic lifts, or any other thoroughfare associated with moving
people or materials.
UNDUE HARDSHIP: Special conditions depriving the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other property owners in the same district under the terms of this
title, but not merely a matter of convenience and profit.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is being used.
USE, EXISTING: Any use legally existing at the effective date hereof.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a principal building, which is
unoccupied and unobstructed.
ZONE DISTRICT: A portion of the incorporated territory of Bellevue defined by
this title and designated on Zoning Maps to which the provisions of this title
apply. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2019-06, 7-30-2019)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Administrator
10-3-2: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-3-3: Appeals
10-3-4: Enforcement And Penalties
10-3-1: ADMINISTRATOR:
The Council shall appoint an Administrator to administer this title. The
Administrator, commonly referred to as the Community Development Director, may
be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the Council may
direct. The Administrator's duties include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Advise interested citizens of the provisions of this title.
   B.   Inform the news media regarding land use and zoning matters of public
interest, particularly the time and place of public hearings.
   C.   Prepare the agenda for the monthly meetings of the commission.
   D.   Aid applicants in the preparation of required forms and permit
applications. Where practical, he/she may combine related permits for the
convenience of the applicant.
   E.   Investigate all violations of this title, and notify in writing the
person responsible for such violation(s), ordering the action necessary to
correct such violation.
   F.   Receive, file, and transmit to the commission or Council all
applications, petitions, transcripts, and other communications on which they
must act. Advise the commission and the Council of pertinent provisions of this
title regarding development proposals.
   G.   Maintain permanent and current records of applications,
reclassifications, variances, and conditional use permits and of the hearings
and actions thereon.
   H.   Review and make, or recommend, decisions as follows:
      1.   Reductions in front yard setbacks to no less than 10 (ten) feet from
the property line.
      2.   The Administrator, with concurrence from the Chair or the Chair's
designee, has the authority to review and grant design review approval of
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU's) in the General Residential (GR) Zoning
District.
      3.   The Administrator, with concurrence from the Chair or the Chair's
designee, has the authority to approve minor modifications to projects that
have received design review approval by the Commission prior to, and for the
duration of a valid building permit. The Administrator shall make the
determination as to what constitutes minor modifications and may include, but
are not limited to, changes to landscape plans, changes to approved colors and/
or siding materials, changes to colors, changes to dumpster enclosures, changes
to exterior lighting fixtures and location, or changes to windows that do not
significantly affect project design, appearance or function. All approved
modifications must be documented in a memo to the project file and on the
approved set of plans on file with the building department. For modifications
to design review approval that are determined by the administrator not to be
minor, the Administrator has the authority to recommend approval or denial of
such modifications, subject to final decision by the commission on its consent
agenda. Such recommendations for approval or denial shall be in the form of
findings of fact, and conclusions of law.
      4.   All applications shall be held and noticed in the regular meeting
format and noticed according to Idaho Code 67-2343. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015;
amd. Ord. 2019-10, 9-23-2019)
10-3-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Established: A Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby
established.
   B.   Membership; Appointment And Term:
      1.   The membership and appointment of the commission shall be governed
by the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6504, as amended, and applicable
ordinances of the City. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
      2.   The commission shall consist of no more than five (5) voting
members. Each member shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Council. The Council, in creating the commission, shall provide that the areas
and interests within its jurisdiction are broadly represented on the
commission. Each member shall have been a resident of the City for the two (2)
years prior to appointment to the commission and shall be a resident of the
City at the time of appointment; except, that one member may reside outside the
corporate limits of the City but within the City's Area of Impact, in which
case, the member shall have been a resident of Blaine County for the two (2)
years prior to appointment. Each member shall serve for a term of three (3)
years from the date of his/her appointment. No person shall serve more than two
(2) full consecutive terms without specific concurrence by two-thirds (2/3) of
the Council adopted by motion and recorded in the minutes. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Compensation: Commission members may receive such compensation as
provided by the Council for reimbursement for related associated costs to
perform the functions or the duties as Planning and Zoning Commissioners.
   D.   Organization: The commission shall elect a Chair and create any
additional offices it may deem necessary. The commission may establish
subcommittees, advisory committees, or neighborhood groups to advise and assist
in carrying out the responsibilities under this section. The commission may
enact a set of bylaws to guide its operation.
   E.   Meetings, Records And Voting: At least one regular meeting shall be
held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a year. Additional special
or workshop meetings may be scheduled as necessary. All meetings and records
shall be open to the public. A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions,
studies, findings, permits, and actions taken shall be maintained. All members
shall have voting rights. A majority of the members of the commission shall
constitute a quorum.
   F.   Responsibilities And Duties: The commission shall hold public meetings,
hearings, surveys, etc., to obtain input to the planning process. The
commission may also conduct informational meetings to consult with public
officials and agencies, civil or professional organizations, etc. As a result
of such meetings, the commission may submit recommendations to the Council
concerning the planning process. Further, the commission shall:
      1.   Initiate amendments to this title, the subdivision ordinance, and
the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Periodically review all privately proposed amendments to this title,
the subdivision ordinance and the Comprehensive Plan, and make recommendations
to the Council.
      3.   Review development proposals according to the process outlined in
the subdivision ordinance.
      4.   Review applications for zoning reclassification and make
recommendations to the Council.
      5.   Review, grant, or deny conditional use permit applications and
applications for variances.
      6.   Hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that an error has been
made by the Administrator.
   G.   Conflict Of Interest: A member or employee of the commission shall not
participate in any proceeding or action when the member or employee (or his
employer, business partner, associate, or any person related to him by affinity
or consanguinity within the second degree) has an economic interest in the
procedure or action.
   H.   Retroactive Effect Of Amendments: The amendments to this section shall
apply retroactively to commission members appointed before the effective date
hereof. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-3-3: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals From Decisions Of Administrator:
      1.   Notice Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the
Administrator made in interpreting or enforcing this title may appeal such a
decision to the commission by filing a notice of appeal with the commission
within fifteen (15) days of such decision, stating the date and nature of the
decision from which appealed and the grounds for the appeal. If no notice of
appeal is so filed, the decision of the Administrator shall be final and not
subject to further appeal or review.
      2.   Copies Of Record On Appeal: Within twenty (20) days of the filing of
the notice of appeal, the Administrator shall provide the appellant and file
with the commission copies of the record on appeal, including all applications
and other documents and exhibits pertinent to the appeal, together with the
Administrator's certificate stating that the documents listed comprise the
complete record of the decision under appeal.
      3.   Hearing By Commission: The commission shall hold a public hearing on
all appeals from the decisions of the Administrator within thirty (30) days of
the Administrator's certification of the record on appeal. The appeal shall be
based and heard solely upon the record before the Administrator. The commission
shall, within thirty (30) days after the hearing, enter a written order
affirming, reversing or modifying the Administrator's decision. The order shall
also contain the reasons for the commission's decision.
      4.   Decision By Commission: The commission shall, within ten (10) days
after the hearing, enter a written order affirming, reversing, or modifying the
Administrator's decision. The order shall also contain the reasons for the
commission's decision.
   B.   Appeals To Council:
      1.   Notice Of Appeal; Estimated Costs: Any person aggrieved by any final
action of the commission may appeal the commission's decision to the Council by
filing a notice of appeal within fifteen (15) days from the date of the
decision. The notice of appeal shall state the date and substance of the
decision appealed from and state the grounds for the appeal. Copies of the
notice of appeal shall be filed with both the Council and the commission. The
Administrator shall provide any such aggrieved person with a written statement
of the estimated cost of transcript preparation. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd.
2018 Code)
      2.   Transmission Of Record: Within thirty (30) days after a notice of
appeal is filed, the commission shall prepare three (3) copies of a summary of
the proceedings from which appealed and forward said summary to the Council. A
transcript of the proceedings may be prepared at the appellant's expense. The
cost of the transcripts shall be paid in full before the transcript may be
forwarded to the Council. The commission shall serve one copy of the summary or
transcript on the appellant and one copy on the attorney for the respondent.
The commission shall submit to the Council with the summary or transcript all
documents, exhibits, and orders pertinent to the appeal.
      3.   Hearing By Council: The Council shall hold a hearing on the appeal
as soon as possible following receipt of the Administrator's certificate and
the commission's record. The Council shall publish a notice specifying the
time, date and place of the hearing and stating the subject of the appeal. The
notice shall be published once in the official newspaper at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing. The Council may not take additional evidence at the
hearing. The parties to the appeal may present briefs to the Council. Each
party may present not more than fifteen (15) minutes of oral argument to the
Council.
      4.   Decision By Council: The Council shall enter an order within fifteen
(15) days after the hearing affirming, reversing, or modifying the commission's
decision. The order shall contain a statement of the decision.
   C.   Request For Reconsideration: An applicant or affected person who seeks
judicial review of a decision by the administrator, hearing examiner,
commission or council must first seek reconsideration of the final decision
within fourteen (14) days. A request for reconsideration shall be made to the
person or body who makes a recommendation. A request for reconsideration must
allege and identify specific deficiencies in the decision. Upon a
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified after
compliance with applicable procedural standards. A written decision shall be
provided to the applicant or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt
of the request for reconsideration or request is deemed denied. A decision
shall not be deemed final for purposes of an appeal or judicial review unless
the process required herein has been followed. The time to file an appeal or
seek judicial review is tolled until the date of the written decision regarding
reconsideration or the expiration of the sixty (60) day reconsideration period,
whichever occurs first.
   D.   Mediation:
      1.   Authority: The mediation of land use decision will be governed by
the provisions in Idaho Code Section 67-6510, as amended, and this title.
      2.   Public Hearing: If mediation occurs after a final decision, any
resolution of differences through mediation must be the subject of another
public hearing, consistent with the type of hearing which resulted in the
original decision, before the decisionmaking body.
      3.   Action by the Council: The council shall act on the mediation
recommendations within sixty (60) days of the receipt of the recommendation.
The mediation process shall not be part of the official record regarding
consideration of the application upon which the mediation is based. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord. 2019-02, 4-22-2019)
10-3-4: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
The provisions of this title shall be enforced in the following manner:
   A.   Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint with the Administrator
stating the causes and bases thereof. The Administrator shall investigate and
forward to the City Attorney the results of such investigation and the
complaint. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
   B.   A violation of this title shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that such a violation continues shall constitute a
separate criminal offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public
official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains such violation may be found guilty of such a violation.
   C.   In addition to the criminal sanctions in subsection B of this section,
whenever a violation of this title occurs, the City Attorney may institute
proceedings in the District Court seeking civil penalties not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or six (6) months' imprisonment. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-
20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Whenever it appears to the Council that any person has engaged in or is
about to engage in any act or practice violating any provision of this title,
the Council may institute a civil action in the District Court to enforce
compliance with this title.
   E.   Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing any private citizen
from pursuing any available civil remedy for the prevention of any activity
which constitutes a violation of this title. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purposes
10-4-2: Districts Created
10-4-3: Official Zoning Maps
10-4-4: District Boundaries
10-4-5: Zoning Of Vacated Streets Or Alleys
10-4-1: PURPOSES:
The designated zoning districts have been made to realize the general purposes
stated in the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan. The specific purposes of each zoning
district are stated in the appropriate chapters of this title. (Ord. 2015-02,
4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
10-4-2: DISTRICTS CREATED:
The following districts are created:
GR   General Residential District
B    Business District
LB/R Limited Business/Residential District
LI/B Light Industrial/Mixed Business District
LI   Light Industrial District
T    Transitional District
RGB  Recreation Green Belt District
AVO  Avalanche Overlay District
 
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-4-3: OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS:
Official Zoning Maps, dated March 6, 2013, depicting the boundaries of the
zoning districts described in this chapter are hereby established as shown on
the Official Zoning Maps of the City. These Official Zoning Maps are located in
the City Clerk's Office in the City Hall and on the City website, and are
hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
10-4-4: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Boundaries Established:
      1.   Unless otherwise defined on the zoning maps, district boundaries
shall be lot lines, the centerlines of streets and alleys, highway right-of-way
lines, the centerline between two (2) main tracks of any railroad line,
extended quarter-section, half-section or section lines, contour lines,
Municipal corporate boundaries, centerlines, or banks of streambeds or other
bodies of water or noticeable points of change in natural landforms.
      2.   Where district boundaries appear approximately parallel to the
centerlines of streets or parallel to the centerlines or rights- of-way of
highways, such lines shall in fact constitute the boundaries on the Official
Zoning Map. If no distance is indicated, the boundary shall be determined by
the use of the scale shown on the Official Zoning Map.
      3.   Where district boundaries appear to follow lot lines, the lot lines
shall constitute boundaries.
   B.   Interpretation Of Boundaries: The Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to interpret boundaries in accordance with this title. Interpretation
by the Administrator may be appealed to the commission according to the
procedure in section
10-3-3 of this title. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-4-5: ZONING OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS:
Whenever a street or alley is vacated and that street or alley has not been
given a zone classification, the land of the vacated street or alley shall have
the same zone classification as the land adjacent or abutting land owned or on
the same side of the centerline of the former street or alley to which such
land reverts or to whom said land becomes vested by operation of law. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RECLASSIFICATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS (REZONES)
SECTION:
10-5-1: Initiation Of Reclassification; Compliance With Comprehensive Plan
10-5-2: Application For Reclassification
10-5-3: Public Hearing And Notice Of Application Review
10-5-4: Criteria For Review
10-5-5: Administrative Action
10-5-6: Resubmission Of Application
10-5-1: INITIATION OF RECLASSIFICATION; COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
A reclassification may be initiated by the commission, the Council, or property
owners or holders of valid options to purchase property. Any proposed
reclassification shall be in conformance with the adopted Comprehensive Plan
and Comprehensive Plan Map. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-5-2: APPLICATION FOR RECLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Any person seeking reclassification shall apply to the commission on a
form provided by the Administrator, accompanied by the fees. The application
shall include a vicinity map showing the lots and parcels of land within three
hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the property in question,
together with a list of names and addresses of the owners of each parcel within
three hundred feet (300').
   B.   In granting rezone applications for light industrial and business uses,
the Council shall require the zones to be screened. The cost of the screening
is to be borne by the individual(s) obtaining the rezone.
   C.   Prior to any consideration of a rezone, the Council shall require the
following information:
      1.   A statement describing detrimental and/or beneficial impacts on
existing adjacent lands and uses.
      2.   Design and plan which shows:
         a.   Existence of natural screening, or the provision of reasonable
alternatives, to give separation of the proposed use from surrounding existing
uses. The cost of the screening is to be borne by the individual(s) obtaining
the light industrial or business rezone.
         b.   Location of utilities (water, sewer, gas and electricity).
         c.   Proposed layout of building(s) including lot coverage and
building area.
         d.   Plans for snow removal. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-5-3: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE OF APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Each application will be reviewed at a public hearing for which
adequate public notice will be given. A completed application will be heard by
the commission at a public hearing within forty five (45) days of its receipt.
   B.   Notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing, and a summary of
the proposal shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the County at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, and
a second publication within the week immediately prior to the scheduled date.
   C.   The Administrator shall also give notice by United States mail to each
property owner whose name appears on the list accompanying the application,
giving the time, date, and place of the hearing, the relief sought, the
identification of the property under consideration, and such other facts as may
be prescribed by the Administrator. Individual mailings may be waived when the
aforementioned list includes the names of more than two hundred (200) property
owners or residents.
   D.   In any public hearing on a reclassification application, the presiding
officer may order the hearing to be continued up to fifteen (15) days at the
same place, in which case, no further published notice shall be required. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-5-4: CRITERIA FOR REVIEW:
The commission shall consider at least the following criteria in acting upon an
application for a reclassification:
   A.   Whether there was a mistake in the original zoning.
   B.   Whether there has been a change in the surrounding neighborhood since
the zoning ordinance was passed.
   C.   Whether the property owner is presently being denied a reasonable use
of his property.
   D.   To what extent the public health, safety, or general welfare may be
adversely affected by the reclassification.
   E.   Whether present zoning classifications are in conformity with existing
uses of adjacent property.
   F.   Whether the property in question is within the Transitional District.
   G.   Additional criteria for proposed light industrial rezones shall
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
      1.   Before approving any rezone application for a Light Industrial Zone,
the Council must find that the following required standards are met:
         a.   Existence of natural screening or the provision of a reasonable
alternative to give separation from existing uses.
         b.   Minimum size of area to be rezoned is one acre, unless it is to
be located adjacent and contiguous to an existing Light Industrial Zone.
      2.   In considering any rezone application for a Light Industrial Zone,
the Council shall consider the following factors as favoring the application:
         a.   Location adjacent to existing industrial uses in the City.
         b.   Accessibility of the proposed area to employee and product
transportation lines.
         c.   Provision of expanded employment opportunities in the City.
         d.   Economic benefit to the City when compared to the cost of City
services needed.
      3.   In considering any rezone application for a Light Industrial Zone,
the Council shall consider the following factors as being unfavorable to the
application:
         a.   Utilization of residential accesses to serve the industrial area.
         b.   Adverse comments from area landowners. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-5-5: ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION:
   A.   Action By Commission:
      1.   The commission shall enter an order recommending for or against the
application within fifteen (15) days after conclusion of the public hearing,
together with the reasons therefor.
      2.   The commission shall have the option to recommend the expansion of
the boundaries of any application to the Council after the initial public
hearing. In such case, a second public hearing must be held to consider the
revised boundaries, after giving public notice in the same manner prescribed
above. In such case, the Administrator shall determine the names and addresses
of the owners of each parcel of land within three hundred feet (300') of the
amplified boundaries and notify them by United States mail of the upcoming
hearing.
   B.   Notification By Administrator: The Administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the commission's recommendation by certified mail
within ten (10) days after the commission has reached a decision. The
Administrator shall file the commission's written recommendation with the City
Clerk within ten (10) days after such recommendation has been made.
   C.   Action By Council:
      1.   At its next regular meeting after receipt of the commission's
recommendation, the Council shall enter an order approving, disapproving, or
modifying the recommendation. If the Council disapproves the commission's
recommendation, it shall enter an order stating its reasons. If the Council
approves a reclassification application, it shall prepare an ordinance of
amendment, which shall not become effective until a public hearing has been
held.
      2.   The Council shall hold a public hearing on the application at its
earliest convenience. Public notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper at least fifteen (15) days in advance.
Public input shall be taken into consideration by the Council. (Ord. 2015-02,
4-20-2015)
10-5-6: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for the reclassification of a piece of property which has been
denied by the Council or withdrawn by the applicant shall be resubmitted in
less than one year from the date of final action thereon. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
CHAPTER 6
GR GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Permitted Uses
10-6-3: Accessory Uses
10-6-4: Conditional Uses
10-6-5: Dimensional, Bulk And Building Coverage Standards And Requirements
10-6-6: Other Restrictions
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the General Residential District is to permit and protect
residential use of property from other noncompatible uses. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
10-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in this district are limited to the following:
Accessory buildings and uses.
Accessory dwelling: One accessory dwelling unit in addition to one single-
family dwelling unit. Accessory dwelling unit sizes shall comply with table A
depicted in section
10-2-1 of this title and are subject to administrative design review approval.
Agriculture such as gardens, orchards, etc.
Churches, parks, playgrounds and golf courses.
Essential public utility and public service installations and facilities for
the protection and welfare of the surrounding area, provided business offices
and repair and storage facilities are not included.
Hospitals.
Medical clinics.
Multiple family dwellings, including townhouses, shall be allowed on no less
than a six thousand (6,000) square foot lot per dwelling in the platted and
unplatted portions of the City unless a reduced lot size is approved by the
City through a planned unit development, annexation agreement, development
agreement, design review or other similar process, or when the City deems it as
a benefit for providing affordable housing. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall review and approve a design review application that requires a minimum of
on-site parking for single-family and two-family dwellings and access is off an
improved street, not alley and there is compliance with front, rear and side
setbacks. The approved reduced lot size shall not be less than three thousand
(3,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
Nursery schools.
Nursing homes and sanitariums.
One-family dwellings, single-family dwellings shall be allowed on not less than
a six thousand (6,000) square foot lot in the City limits unless a reduced lot
size is approved by the City through a planned unit development, annexation
agreement, development agreement, design review or other similar process, or
when the City deems it as a benefit for providing affordable housing. The City
Planning and Zoning Commission shall review and approve a design review
application that requires a minimum of on-site parking, access is off an
improved street, not an alley, and there is compliance with front, rear and
side setbacks. The approved reduced lot size shall not be less than three
thousand (3,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
Public and private schools for elementary and high school education. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 7-11-2022)
10-6-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this district shall be limited to:
Farm and garden buildings/portable storage shed, greenhouse.
Recreational Vehicle Occupancy:
   1.   It shall be unlawful to occupy or for an owner of a lot or parcel to
allow an RV to be occupied for more than twenty-one (21) consecutive days
within any six (6) month period.
   2.   Occupied shall mean eating, sleeping, living, cooking or other use of
the unit for human habitation.
Storage of boats, campers, and travel trailers by resident owners. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord. 2019-06, 7-30-2019)
10-6-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in this district are limited to:
Governmental emergency service WCFs.
Home occupations.
Mobile home parks.
Nursery for children.
Public facilities.
Buildings in excess of twenty eight thousand (28,000) square feet in gross
floor area, up to a maximum floor area not to exceed thirty six thousand
(36,000) square feet in gross floor area. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord.
2022-01, 4-11-2022)
10-6-5: DIMENSIONAL, BULK AND BUILDING COVERAGE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The dimensional, bulk and building coverage standards and requirements for this
district are the following:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in the City limits shall be six
thousand (6,000) square feet in the platted portion and six thousand (6,000)
square feet in the unplatted portion, unless a reduced lot size is approved by
the City through a planned unit development, annexation agreement, development
agreement or other similar process, or when the City deems it as a benefit for
providing affordable housing. The approved reduced lot size shall not be less
than three thousand (3,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), unless otherwise approved by the
City through a planned unit development, annexation agreement, development
agreement or other similar process, or when the City deems it as a benefit for
providing affordable housing which is linked to an affordable housing.
   C.   Minimum Front Yard:
      1.   Minimum distance of any building from the front lot line: Twenty
(20) feet, except all garage portions of a building shall remain at twenty five
(25) feet. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015, amended Ord. 2019-05, 6-24-2019)
      2.   A ten foot (10') minimum distance of any building from the front lot
line may be approved by the City through an approved design review application,
a planned unit development, annexation agreement, development agreement or
other similar process. Reduced setbacks shall be considered to encourage
architectural features such as extended rooflines over entries, covered or
enclosed on site parking and covered porches. All applications applying for
reduced setbacks shall provide on site snow storage and parking. No building
shall obstruct the vision triangle at an intersection. Setbacks shall be
measured from the extremities of the building to the property line.
      3.   Garden buildings/portable storage shed structures and greenhouses
which do not require a City building permit, are less than one hundred twenty
(120) square feet and shall not be used to house farm animals may have a
minimum (front) setback from the property line of ten feet (10'). Setbacks for
garden buildings/portable storage shed structures on a lot having dual street
frontage shall be not less than ten feet (10') from the property line. The
property owner shall be responsible for determining his or her property lines
prior to placing the structure. Structures shall not restrict the minimum
number of required on site vehicle parking spaces. The property owner shall be
responsible for removing the structure if it is placed over utilities. The
property owner shall comply with applicable CC&Rs. Maximum square footage for
the structures defined herein shall not exceed a single structure or multiple
structures of two hundred (200) square feet per single-family dwelling,
utilizing the reduced setbacks stated herein. All structures over one hundred
twenty (120) square feet shall obtain an approved building permit.
   D.   Minimum Side and Rear Yards: (Minimum distance of any building from
each side and rear lot lines.) These restrictions shall be followed in all
cases:
      1.   A ten foot (10') Minimum distance of any building from the front lot
line may be approved by the city through an approved design review application,
a planned unit development, annexation agreement, development agreement or
similar process. Reduced setback shall be considered to encourage architectural
features such as extended rooflines over entries, covered or enclosed on site
parking and covered porches.
      2.   No residence or outbuilding shall be placed closer than six feet
(6') from any side or rear property line, unless otherwise approved by the City
through an approved design review application, a planned unit development,
annexation agreement, development agreement or other similar process. The
reduced side and rear property line setbacks shall not be less than four feet
(4'). All applications proposing to utilize reduced setbacks shall provide on
site snow storage and not obstruct the vision triangle at an intersection.
Setbacks shall be measured from the extremities of the building to the property
line.
      3.   There shall be nothing that would possibly obstruct the vision
triangle placed closer than fifteen feet (15') from the property line at a
corner or intersection. Any fences, shrubs, etc., that are placed on the
property lines shall not exceed a height of three and one-half feet (31/2')
where they could possibly interfere with vision at intersections.
      4.   Minimum front, side and rear yards for a townhouse development,
multi-unit housing, nursing home, condominium, educational facility, church,
and other institutional housing shall meet the same setback requirements as
indicated in subsections C-1, D1 and D2 of this section; except, that townhouse
development, multi-unit housing, nursing home, condominium, educational
facility, church, and other institutional housing complexes shall be allowed
zero setbacks from common wall lot lines.
      5.   Garden buildings/portable storage shed structures and greenhouses
which do not require a City building permit, are less than one hundred twenty
(120) square feet and shall not be used to house farm animals may have a
minimum side and rear setback from the property line of ten feet (10').
Setbacks for garden buildings/portable storage shed structures on a lot having
dual street frontage shall not be less than ten feet (10') from the property
line. The property owner shall be responsible for determining his or her
property lines prior to placing the structure. Structures shall not restrict
the minimum number of required on site vehicle parking spaces. The property
owner shall be responsible for removing the structure if it is placed over
utilities. The property owner shall comply with applicable CC&Rs. The maximum
square footage for the structures defined herein shall not exceed a single
structure or multiple structures of two hundred (200) square feet per single-
family dwelling, utilizing the reduced setbacks stated herein. An approved
building permit shall be obtained for all structures over one hundred twenty
(120) square feet.
   E.   Maximum Floor Area:
      1.   The gross floor area for buildings in the GR zone shall not exceed
thirty six thousand (36,000) square feet. All buildings in excess of twenty-
eight thousand (28,000) square feet in gross floor area per lot or parcel shall
apply for and obtain a conditional use permit, pursuant to chapter 10-15 of
this Code. All buildings in excess of twenty-eight thousand (28,000) square
feet shall have a minimum setback of ten feet (10').
      2.   Exemptions: Churches and public facilities, as defined in chapter
10-2, shall be exempt from the maximum floor area provision. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-
20-2015; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2019-05, 6-24-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-02, 1-27-
2020; Ord. 2022-01, 4-11-2022; Ord. 2023-01, 2-13-2023)
10-6-6: OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All residences shall be placed on a lot so that there shall be adequate
parking for no fewer than two (2) cars. This parking shall be exclusively on
the private property. City street property shall not be included.
   B.   No residence shall be more than two (2) stories above ground level or
thirty five feet (35'). Basements shall be excluded from such measurement.
   C.   The maximum height of any accessory building shall not be more than
twenty feet (20'), and the height shall be measured from the lowest point of
natural grade along the building foundation perimeter.
   D.   A shop, hobby or small business activity in residential areas shall be
housed.
   E.   Only one house may be constructed on each residential lot. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 7
B BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Permitted Uses
10-7-3: Accessory Uses
10-7-4: Conditional Uses
10-7-5: Dimensional, Bulk And Building Coverage Standards And Requirements
10-7-6: Mixed Use Developments
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the Business District to designate space for business.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
Business, professional, public or social services offices.
Gas stations, restaurants, bars, theaters, banks, motels, tourist homes,
hotels, and car washes.
Nursery for children, nursing homes.
One accessory dwelling unit for each six thousand (6,000) square feet of lot
area; provided, that it is: a) in the same building as the business use of the
property; b) clearly ancillary and secondary to the business use which shall,
by application, be the primary use of the property; c) of less square footage
than the business use of the building; and d) in the back of and/or on an upper
floor of the building so as not to adversely reduce the ground level, street
frontage business space available. Accessory dwelling units shall be subject to
administrative design review approval.
Public utility business offices, repair, and storage facilities.
Recreational facilities, including bowling alleys.
Repair and personal services.
Retail stores and related storage, including commercial nursery and building
supply outlets.
Wireless communication facilities (WCFs) (see additional requirements in
section
10-23-7 of this title). (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-7-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this district include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Temporary buildings incidental to construction work on the premises; such
buildings to be removed upon completion of construction work. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-
20-2015)
10-7-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
   Churches.
   Governmental emergency service WCFs.
   Motor vehicle sales and leasing with no use of banners, flags, balloons and
other display techniques except signage which complies with this title.
   Multiple family dwellings, including townhomes and condominiums as part of a
mixed used development and approved through a planned unit development
application.
   Parking lots and garages.
   Public facilities.
   Small engine repairs and maintenance incidental to the primary use.
   Buildings in excess of twenty-eight thousand (28,000) square feet in gross
floor area, up to a maximum floor area not to exceed thirty-six thousand
(36,000) square feet in gross floor area. (Ord. 2018-01, 4-23-2018; amd. Ord.
2022-01, 4-11-2022; Ord. 2025-01, 2-10-2025)
10-7-5: DIMENSIONAL, BULK AND BUILDING COVERAGE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The dimensional, bulk, and building coverage standards and requirements for
this district are the following:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: The maximum height of a building shall be
forty feet (40').
   B.   Minimum Lot Width And Area: The minimum lot width shall be fifty feet
(50'), and the minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet,
unless a reduced lot width and size is approved by the city through a planned
unit development.
   C.   Parking Requirements: For parking requirements, refer to chapter
21  of this title.
   D.   Maximum Floor Area:
      1.   The gross floor area for buildings in the B zone shall not exceed
thirty six thousand (36,000) thousand square feet. All buildings in excess of
twenty-eight thousand (28,000) square feet in gross floor area per lot or
parcel shall apply for and obtain a conditional use permit, pursuant to chapter
10-15  of this Code. All buildings in excess of twenty-eight thousand (28,000)
square feet shall have a minimum setback of ten feet (10').
      2.   Exemptions: Public facilities, as defined in chapter 10-2, shall be
exempt from the maximum floor area provision. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd.
Ord. 2022-01, 4-11-2022; Ord. 2025-01, 2-10-2025)
10-7-6: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS:
Mixed use developments consisting of permitted or conditionally permitted as
identified in section 2 and 3 of this chapter in combination with residential
land uses are conditionally permitted when approved through a planned unit
development application, and are subject to the following requirements:
   A.   For multi-story structures, the commercial space shall be provided at
the primary street level of the development with residential uses above.
   B.   For single-story structures, the commercial space shall be provided in
front of the residential uses.
   C.   In all cases, a minimum of fity percent (50%) of the total conditioned
ground floor area shall be utilized as commercial space.
(Ord. 2025-01, 2-10- 2025)
CHAPTER 8
LB/R LIMITED BUSINESS/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Permitted Uses
10-8-3: Accessory Uses
10-8-4: Conditional Uses
10-8-5: Dimensional And Bulk Standards
10-8-6: Parking
10-8-7: Other Restrictions
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Limited Business/Residential District is to designate space
and permit and protect limited business uses and residential use of these
properties from other noncompatible uses and provide a buffer between the
Business District on Main Street and the General Residential District that
begins on the east side of 2nd Street and runs to the eastern borders of the
City. The theme the City wishes to generate over time is a "pedestrian
friendly" area where residences may be adapted to business use, and where
businesses of moderate size and scale have the appearance of homes. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
10-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
Accessory dwelling unit: One accessory dwelling unit for each six thousand
(6,000) square feet of lot area; provided, that it is in the same building as
the business use of the property and is clearly ancillary and secondary to the
limited business use which shall, by application, be the primary use of the
property, is of less square footage than the limited business use of the
building and is in the back of and/or on an upper floor of the building so as
not to adversely reduce the ground level, street frontage business space
available. Accessory dwelling units shall be subject to administrative design
review approval.
Agriculture limited to small gardens or orchards for personal use. The keeping
of farm animals including, but not limited to, horses, pigs, sheep, and cows
will not be permitted except as grandfathered for such existing uses prior to
the effective date hereof.
Business and professional offices including, but not limited to, legal,
medical, dental, tax consulting and preparation (CPA), and other similar
businesses.
Home occupations as defined in sections
10-2-1 and
10-14-3 of this title.
Multiple (two) family dwellings, including duplexes and townhouses. The minimum
lot size for these applications shall be not less than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet.
Nursery schools for children.
Nursing or assisted living homes on a small scale.
Parks and playgrounds.
Personal services as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title.
Restaurants and bed and breakfast tourist homes with exceptions. No restaurants
or other businesses shall have vehicle drive-through services.
Retail stores such as antique stores.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-8-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this district include the following:
Accessory/garden buildings and other storage buildings not to exceed two
hundred (200) square feet.
Detached garages for vehicle storage up to six hundred (600) square feet per
six thousand (6,000) square foot lot. If additional lot(s) are included, the
garage square footage may be increased by one hundred (100) square feet for
every three thousand (3,000) square feet of additional land included, up to a
maximum of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
Storage of boats, campers, and travel trailers by resident owners in off street
parking areas.
Temporary buildings incidental to construction work on the premises; such
buildings to be removed upon completion of construction work. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-
20-2015)
10-8-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses are limited to the following for this district. Conditional
uses shall be judged by the standards and criteria of this title and factors
including, but not limited to, traffic generated, impact on infrastructure,
safety, and noise.
Churches.
Parking lots.
Public facilities: Essential public utility and public service installations
and facilities for the protection and welfare of the surrounding area; except,
that high traffic generating business offices are not permitted. Repair and
storage facilities associated with these applications will not be permitted.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-8-5: DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS:
The minimum dimensional and bulk standards for limited business and residential
applications in this district are the following: (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area in this district shall be six thousand
(6,000) square feet. One single-family dwelling shall be permitted for each six
thousand (6,000) square feet. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Building Area: No building shall exceed three thousand (3,000) square
feet gross floor area on a single six thousand (6,000) square foot lot. Credits
for additional land area shall be two hundred fifty (250) square feet of gross
floor area for each additional three thousand (3,000) square feet of land,
providing for up to a maximum of four thousand (4,000) square feet gross floor
area.
   C.   Lot Width: Fifty feet (50') for single lot business or residential
applications and one hundred feet (100') for two (2) lot or multiple (two)
family dwellings.
   D.   Front Yard: The distance of any building shall be twenty five feet
(25') from the front yard lot line to the extremes of the building (such as
roof overhang). Within the original platted part of the City, the front yard is
defined as the opposite end of the lot from the platted alleyway.
   E.   Side Yards: The distance of any building from each side lot line shall
be six feet (6') and shall be measured from the extremes of the building.
   F.   Rear Yard: The distance of any building from the rear lot line, or the
side adjoining the alleyway, shall be six feet (6') measured from the extremes
of the building.
   G.   Safety And Vision: There shall be nothing that would possibly obstruct
the view of a motorist or pedestrian placed closer than fifteen feet (15') from
the corner of a lot adjoining a street intersection. Any fences, shrubs, or
other objects that are placed within this area or on property lines shall not
exceed a height of three and one-half feet (31/2') for a distance of thirty
feet (30') from the corner of the lot. The branch overhang of any trees planted
or existing within this area shall be maintained at a height of not less than
ten feet (10') above the ground.
   H.   Multiple (Two) Family Residences: Minimum front, side and rear yards
for a townhouse development or a duplex shall meet the same setback
requirements as indicated in this section; except that, townhouse units shall
be allowed zero setbacks from the common wall lot lines created by a townhouse
sublot.
   I.   Nonconforming Building Setbacks: Any building that does not comply with
the setback requirements of this section may be expanded and otherwise
improved, provided such expansion or improvement does not encroach within any
required setback and does not increase the degree of nonconformity.
   J.   Building Height: No building shall be more than two (2) stories above
ground level or thirty five feet (35') in height. No accessory building shall
be more than twenty feet (20') in height. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-8-6: PARKING:
All buildings shall be placed on a lot so that there shall be adequate parking
for no fewer than two (2) cars placed exclusively on the private property. The
maximum area for parking shall be four (4) spaces for a single-family residence
and six (6) spaces for a multiple (two) family townhouse. All limited
businesses shall provide adequate parking for the specific business type
applied for. City street or alley rights-of-way shall not be included. See
chapter 21 of this title for dimensional standards and definitions. Specific to
the LB/R Limited Business/Residential District, the following shall apply:
 
Type Of Use            Number Of Parking Spaces
Bed and breakfast      For boarding or rooming houses, 1 per each sleeping room
                       or every 3 beds, whichever is greater
Medical/dental offices 1 per each 200 square feet of net floor area used by
                       patrons, plus 1 per employee on duty
Nursing homes          1 per each 3 beds
Restaurants            For small restaurants, 1 per each 250 square feet of net
                       floor space used by patrons, plus 1 per employee on duty
                       For basic retail stores, 1 per each 500 square feet of
Retail                 net floor area used by customers or patrons, plus 1 per
                       every 750 square feet of net storage area, plus 1 per
                       employee on duty
Other                  Parking shall be as set forth in chapter 21 of this
                       title
 
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-8-7: OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
All workshops, hobby craft, or small business activity in this district shall
be housed and shall not create dust, noise, or odors perceptible from the
exterior of the property. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 9
LI/B LIGHT INDUSTRIAL/MIXED BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Permitted Uses
10-9-3: Accessory Uses
10-9-4: Conditional Uses
10-9-5: Dimensional, Bulk And Building Coverage Standards And Requirements
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the Light Industrial/Mixed Business District to designate
space for business uses and restrict LI Light Industrial uses on land fronting
Highway 75 that are currently zoned LI. Some LI uses are not appropriate for
fronting on Highway 75, and generally, the best use of Highway 75 frontage
property is business. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
Business uses: professional, public or social services offices.
Contractor offices.
Food catering services.
Gas stations, restaurants, bars, theaters, banks, motels, tourist homes,
hotels, hospitals, commercial nursery and car washes.
Nursery for children, nursing homes.
One accessory dwelling unit for each six thousand (6,000) square feet of lot
area; provided, that it is: a) in the same building as the business use of the
property; b) clearly ancillary and secondary to the business use which shall,
by application, be the primary use of the property; c) of less square footage
than the business use of the building; and d) in the back of and/or on an upper
floor of the building so as not to adversely reduce the ground level, street
frontage business space available. Accessory dwelling units shall be subject to
design review approval.
Public facilities.
Public utility business offices.
Recreational facilities, including bowling alleys.
Repair and personal services.
Retail stores and related storage, including commercial nurseries and building
supply outlets. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-9-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this district include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Temporary buildings incidental to construction work on the premises; such
buildings to be removed upon completion of construction work. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-
20-2015)
10-9-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
Animal hospitals and kennels.
Assembly, light manufacturing processing, packaging, treatment, and fabrication
of goods and merchandise, including laboratories and research offices, bottling
and distribution plants, light repair facilities, and wholesale storage/
distribution warehouses.
Auto detailing within an enclosed site built building.
Bulk storage of flammable liquids underground or gases, subject to the approval
of the Fire Chief of the City Fire Department.
Churches.
Contractor storage yards.
Light industrial uses with commercial business outlets which remain primarily
business rather than light industrial.
Machine shops, printing services.
Motor vehicle and RV sales, leasing, or renting with no use of banners, flags,
balloons and other display techniques except signage which complies with this
title.
Motor vehicle repairs, auto body repairs, vehicle detailing, sand blasting,
repair shops, all completely enclosed in a site built building.
Outdoor nursery/primarily wholesale.
Outdoor storage/nonenclosed limited to building/landscape materials.
Self-storage units.
Buildings in excess of twenty-eight thousand (28,000) square feet in gross
floor area, up to a maximum floor area not to exceed thirty-six thousand
(36,000) square feet in gross floor area. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord.
2022-01, 4-11-2022)
10-9-5: DIMENSIONAL, BULK AND BUILDING COVERAGE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The dimensional, bulk and building coverage standards and requirements for this
district are the following:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: The maximum height of a building shall be
forty feet (40').
   B.   Minimum Lot Width And Area: The minimum lot width shall be fifty feet
(50'), and the minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet.
   C.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements as depicted in chapter 21 of
this title shall apply to all established uses regardless of zoning
designation.
   D.   Maximum Floor Area:
      1.   The gross floor area for buildings in the LI/MB zone shall not
exceed thirty six thousand (36,000) square feet. All buildings in excess of
twenty-eight thousand (28,000) square feet in gross floor area per lot or
parcel shall apply for and obtain a conditional use permit, pursuant to chapter
10-15 of this Code. All buildings in excess of twenty-eight thousand (28,000)
square feet shall have a minimum setback of ten feet (10').
      2.   Exempting churches and public facilities from the maximum square
footage provision. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord. 2022-01, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 10
LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Permitted Uses
10-10-3: Accessory Uses
10-10-4: Conditional Uses
10-10-5: Dimensional, Bulk And Building Coverage Standards And Requirements
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
The Light Industrial District is established to provide lands for light
industrial uses that can be designed to operate compatibly in close proximity
to adjoining business and residential uses. This district is not intended for
residential purposes. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-10-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses for this district are limited to the following:
Animal hospitals and kennels.
Assembly, light manufacturing processing, packaging, treatment, and fabrication
of goods and merchandise, including laboratories and research offices, bottling
and distribution plants, light repair facilities, and wholesale storage/
distribution warehouses.
Contractor offices.
Contractor storage yards.
Food catering services.
Machine shops, printing services.
Motor vehicle repairs, auto body repairs, and vehicle detailing shops.
One accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed for each six thousand (6,000)
square feet of lot area, provided it is located on the same premises; provided,
that it is in the same building as the business and is of a size and function
that is clearly subordinate and ancillary to the light industrial use which
shall be the primary use of the property. Accessory dwelling units shall be
subject to administrative design review approval.
Outdoor nursery and commercial nursery.
Wireless communication facilities (WCFs) (see additional requirements in
section
10-23-7 of this title). (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-10-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The accessory uses for this district include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Incidental accessory retail sales comprising not more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the net floor area of the principal permitted use. The area for such
retail sales shall be calculated for each floor of a building by use and shall
not be transferred between the floors of a building.
Temporary buildings necessary for construction work on the premises; such
buildings to be removed upon completion or abandonment of construction work.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-10-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses for this district are limited to the following:
Bulk storage of flammable liquids or gases, subject to the approval of the Fire
Chief of the City Fire Department.
Churches.
Fire stations, police stations, ambulance, or other public emergency services
including dwelling unit(s) occupied exclusively by employees of the
governmental entity in the same building as and in a size and function that is
clearly subordinate and ancillary to the principal use of the property.
Gas stations that shall not have retail sales except as an accessory use.
Governmental emergency service WCFs.
Light industrial uses with commercial outlets but which remain primarily light
industrial rather than commercial.
Motels.
Motor vehicle sales and leasing, including the sales of trailers (not including
a mobile home, house trailer or manufactured housing).
Office buildings.
Park and ride facilities - private/public.
Public utility and service installations, including repair and storage
facilities.
Restaurants.
Self-storage units. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
10-10-5: DIMENSIONAL, BULK AND BUILDING COVERAGE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The dimensional, bulk and building coverage standards and requirements for this
district are the same as those specified for the Business District. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 11
T TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Permitted Uses
10-11-3: Accessory Uses
10-11-4: Conditional Uses
10-11-5: Dimensional, Bulk And Building Coverage Standards And Requirements
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The Transitional District is established to encompass all of those lands within
the City previously zoned agricultural. While the permitted, accessory and
conditional uses for this district are the same as those for the General
Residential District, it is expressly noted and recognized that certain lands
within this district have either been used for or are suitable for designation
as Business or Light Industrial. Consequently, it is recognized that
applications for rezoning will very likely be filed in the future for lands
within this district and should be treated on a case by case basis. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
10-11-2: PERMITTED USES:
All those listed for the General Residential District. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
10-11-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Same as the General Residential District. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-11-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Same as the General Residential District.
Campgrounds.
Governmental emergency service WCFs. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-11-5: DIMENSIONAL, BULK AND BUILDING COVERAGE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Same as the General Residential District. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 12
RGB RECREATION/GREEN BELT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose And Intent
10-12-2: Permitted Uses
10-12-3: Conditional Uses
10-12-4: Dimensional Standards
10-12-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of the RGB Recreation/Green Belt District shall be one or
more of the following:
      1.   To provide areas of recreational activities.
      2.   To provide areas for nonvehicular transportation system
improvements.
      3.   To create and preserve open space areas for natural habitat.
      4.   To provide areas for aesthetic, natural environmental habitat values
and for public use.
      5.   To protect the character of the community and its economic
viability.
   B.   Uses within the RGB District shall be compatible with the protection of
natural and scenic resources as defined in section
10-12-2 of this chapter for the benefit of present and future generations.
   C.   This zoning district is intended to include those areas designated as
"Green Belt/Recreation" in the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan, identified as
"Parks and Recreational Green Space" in the Bellevue Parks Master Plan, lands
with a slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) and other lands deemed
appropriate by the City for this RGB zoning designation. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
10-12-2: PERMITTED USES:
Nonmotorized, recreational pathways and trails.
Open space, green belts and natural habitat preserves.
Parks, playgrounds and active space. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-12-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Outdoor recreational facilities, such as golf courses, swimming pools, rodeo
grounds, skateboard parks, Nordic ski facilities, and similar uses, excluding
health clubs, and campgrounds.
Public facilities and public utility and public service facilities. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
10-12-4: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
Dimensional standards for this district are the following:
   A.   Minimum lot width: None.
   B.   Side and rear yard setbacks: Ten feet (10') for the first ten feet
(10') of building height and five feet (5') for each additional ten feet (10')
of building height.
   C.   Minimum front yard setback: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Maximum building height: Thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
CHAPTER 13
AVO AVALANCHE OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-13-1: Description
10-13-2: Purposes
10-13-3: District Boundaries
10-13-4: Application Of Provisions
10-13-5: Use Restrictions
10-13-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Safety And Liability
10-13-1: DESCRIPTION:
The AVO Avalanche Overlay Zoning District is hereby established to include all
those areas within the City where high or moderate avalanche potential exists.
Avalanches are caused by steepness of slope, exposure, snowpack composition,
wind, temperature, rate of snowfall and other little understood interacting
factors. Due to the potential avalanche hazard, special regulations are
appropriate within the district. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-13-2: PURPOSES:
The Avalanche Overlay Zoning District is established as a zoning overlay
district for the following purposes:
   A.   To identify those areas within the City where, after due investigation
and study, moderate or high avalanche potential is found to exist;
   B.   To give notice to the public of those areas within the City where such
avalanche potential has been found to exist;
   C.   To minimize health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
extraordinary public expenditures; and
   D.   To promote the general public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
10-13-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The Avalanche Overlay Zoning District boundaries shall be an "overlay
district", and those areas within the City subject to potential moderate or
high avalanche danger are hereby included within said district. The Avalanche
Overlay Zoning District shall consist of two (2) subzone designation areas: the
High (Red) Avalanche Zone and the Moderate (Blue) Avalanche Zone, as delineated
by site specific scientific investigation and study. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-13-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
As an "overlay district", the additional restrictions and requirements of the
Avalanche Overlay Zoning District shall apply to all parcels of real property
located in the district. If any of the regulations specified in this chapter
differ from corresponding regulations specified for a district within which the
Avalanche Overlay Zoning District is combined, the regulations contained in
this chapter shall apply and govern. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-13-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions are imposed upon construction, development and use
of all real property located within the Avalanche Overlay Zoning District:
   A.   No residential buildings or dwelling units shall be constructed or
placed within the Avalanche Overlay Zoning District, however, accessory uses
(other than accessory dwelling units) are permitted within the district.
   B.   All utilities installed after the effective date hereof for development
of a subdivision or providing utility services to a building, or replacing
existing utility services to a building or subdivision shall be installed
underground in order to minimize possible avalanche damage to such utilities
and injury to persons and property.
   C.   Avalanche protective, deflective and preventative structures, devices
or earthwork which threaten to deflect avalanches toward property of others or
otherwise threaten to increase the danger to persons or property are
prohibited. The construction of such structures, devices or earthwork shall be
permitted only as a conditional use. Prior to the granting of a conditional use
permit, the applicant shall submit to the City plans signed by an engineer
licensed in the State of Idaho, certifying that the proposed construction will
withstand the avalanche forces set forth in the avalanche studies on file with
the City and that the proposed construction will not deflect avalanches toward
the property of others. Other information and engineering studies may be
requested in consideration of an application for a conditional use permit. As a
further condition of any conditional use permit, appropriate landscaping may be
required where such structures, devices or earthwork alter the natural slope or
beauty of the land. This shall not apply to reforestation. Alteration or
removal of any existing natural barriers is prohibited.
   D.   There shall be no further subdivision of any property, including lot
splits, which would result in the creation of a lot or building envelope, in
whole or part, within the Avalanche Overlay Zoning District, unless a lot can
be created in which the building envelope conforms to all other provisions of
this chapter and is located entirely outside of the Avalanche Overlay Zoning
District.
   E.   All subdivision plats shall identify and designate each lot and block,
or portions thereof, located within the Avalanche Overlay Zoning District,
together with applicable subzone designation by a stamp or writing in a manner
providing reasonable notice to interested parties.
   F.   During periods of avalanche danger, City services may be suspended or
otherwise not be provided to property within the Avalanche Overlay Zoning
District; nor shall the City accept responsibility for or guarantee that such
services, rescue efforts or emergency services will be provided during periods
of avalanche danger. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-13-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF SAFETY AND LIABILITY:
Avalanches occur naturally, suddenly and unpredictably based upon steepness of
slope and runout area, exposure, snowpack composition, wind, temperature, rate
of snowfall and other little understood interacting factors. The Avalanche
Overlay Zoning District designated in this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based upon and limited by the engineering and
scientific methods of study. This chapter does not represent or imply that
areas outside the Avalanche Overlay Zoning District are free from avalanches or
avalanche danger. The fact that the City has not prohibited all development,
construction or use of real property within the Avalanche Overlay Zoning
District does not constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any
kind as to the safety of any construction, use or occupancy. The granting of
any permit or approval for any structure or use, or the declaration or failure
to declare the existence of an avalanche hazard shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature by the City, or any
official or employee, of the practicality or safety of any construction, use or
occupancy thereof, and shall create no liability upon or cause of action
against the City, or its officials or employees, for any injury, loss or damage
that may result. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 14
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Prohibited Uses
10-14-2: Accessory Uses
10-14-3: Home Occupations
10-14-4: Building Or Setback Permit Required
10-14-5: Sewage Treatment Approval Required
10-14-6: Curb, Gutter, Sidewalk And Street Tree Requirements
10-14-7: Manufactured Housing
10-14-8: Residential Dwellings In Avalanche Zones
10-14-9: Building On Hillside Slopes
10-14-1: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   All uses not permitted under the terms of this title are prohibited.
   B.   Any use that constitutes a public nuisance, as defined in Idaho Code
sections 52-101 and 52-102, is prohibited. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-14-2: ACCESSORY USES:
No provisions at this time. (2018 Code)
10-14-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
A home occupation shall meet all the following conditions:
   A.   They shall be carried on only by the inhabitant living on the premises.
   B.   They shall use less than one-fourth (1/4) the floor area of the
dwelling unit.
   C.   There shall be no display or exterior storage associated with the use
except a sign no more than two feet (2') square.
   D.   They shall not emit noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare
which is noticeable at or beyond its own property lines such that its presence
in the neighborhood is obtrusive.
   E.   They shall provide adequate off street parking as specified in chapter
21 of this title.
   F.   They shall not change the residential character of the neighborhood.
   G.   Items shall not be offered for sale unless the raw materials used have
been so modified that the final product is unquestionably manufactured on the
site. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
   H.   They shall be conditional uses in the Transitional and Residential
Districts. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   I.   Those that have no customers visiting the premises, deliveries, signs
or impacts detectable outside of the home in which conducted and which have and
maintain a current, valid City business license shall be considered incidental
home occupations not requiring a conditional use permit. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
10-14-4: BUILDING OR SETBACK PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to commence construction on any building without having
first obtained a valid written building or setback permit. A building permit
shall be required for all habitable buildings. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-14-5: SEWAGE TREATMENT APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Sewage disposal facilities for all residential dwelling units must be approved
by the building inspector and Public Works Director of the City. (Ord. 2015-02,
4-20-2015)
10-14-6: CURB, GUTTER, SIDEWALK AND STREET TREE REQUIREMENTS:
Within the B Business Zoning District, LB/R Limited Business/Residential Zoning
District, LI Light Industrial Zoning District and LI/B Light Industrial/Mixed
Business Zoning District, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and street trees are
required and shall be installed along the street frontage of each lot or parcel
of real property upon which a new building is constructed or a major addition
(defined as requiring a building permit and having a cost of construction
exceeding $55,000.00). Such improvements shall be constructed in accordance
with the applicable construction standard and ordinances of the City. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-14-7: MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
All manufactured housing placed within the City shall comply with the following
standards and regulations:
   A.   Be multi-sectional and enclose an interior space of not less than one
thousand (1,000) square feet of living area and, when assembled, shall be a
minimum width of not less than sixteen feet (16').
   B.   Be placed on an excavated and backfilled permanent concrete foundation
and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more than
twelve inches (12") above the grade of the parcel of real property prior to the
placement of any fill material; except, in designated floodplain areas,
applicable floodplain regulations shall apply.
   C.   Have a pitched roof of a slope not less than three feet (3') in height
for each twelve feet (12') in width, and which meets the structural snow load
requirements of the City's adopted Building Codes.
   D.   Have the exterior siding and roofing materials commonly used on
residential dwellings within the City, and more particularly, siding material
shall be wood, stone or brick, and roofing material shall be wood shake, wood
shingle, asphalt composite, or nonreflective earth tone metal.
   E.   Meet all minimum standards of the State of Idaho, the United States of
America, including, without limitation, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development ("HUD") and the Federal Housing Administration ("FHA"), and all
applicable Building, Fire and Safety Codes of the City in effect at the time of
the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-14-8: RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS IN AVALANCHE ZONES:
No person shall construct a residential dwelling unit in an area determined by
scientific study to be subject to High (Red Zone) or Moderate (Blue Zone)
avalanches. The City may require a site specific avalanche study of a parcel of
real property potentially subject to avalanches prior to the issuance of any
permit for development thereof. Use and improvement of such property is subject
to chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-14-9: BUILDING ON HILLSIDE SLOPES:
No person shall construct any building or structure on a hillside slope that
exceeds twenty five percent (25%) and areas above that twenty five percent
(25%) slope, except for fences, public utilities and structures for public
utilities pursuant to all Federal, State and City permits. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
CHAPTER 15
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Permit Required
10-15-2: Application For Permit
10-15-3: Standards Of Evaluation
10-15-4: Public Hearing And Notice
10-15-5: Action By Commission; Notice Of Decision
10-15-6: Expiration And Renewal Of Certain Permits
10-15-7: Special Provisions
10-15-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is recognized that certain uses possess unique and special
characteristics with respect to their location, design, size, method of
operation, circulation, and public facilities. In order to protect the public
welfare and guarantee conformance with the Comprehensive Plan, permits are
required for such uses upon review by the commission.
   B.   In any zone, a conditional use permit shall be required for
"aquaculture", which is defined as the commercial raising of fish in a fish
hatchery. The operation of a processing plant shall be considered a conditional
use and must be secondary to the fish hatchery. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-15-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
Administrator by at least one holder of an interest in the real property for
which such conditional use is proposed, accompanied by the fees. The
application shall include at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of the property.
      3.   Description of existing use.
      4.   Zoning district.
      5.   Description of proposed conditional use.
      6.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and
traffic circulation, open spaces, easements, existing and proposed grade,
landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities, signs, rendering of building
exteriors, property lines, north arrow, and such other information as the
commission may require to determine if the proposed conditional use meets the
intent and requirements of this title.
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property;
the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes, and vibration on
adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and
other properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to
the Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
      8.   A list of the names and addresses of all property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   A conditional use permit application may be submitted and reviewed
concurrently with other applications affecting the same piece of property, with
the approval of the Administrator. The Administrator may specify additional
time for review of concurrent applications. Concurrent submissions will be
voted on separately. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-15-3: STANDARDS OF EVALUATION:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed conditional use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a conditional use as established for the
zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and/or this title;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity, and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services, and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare, dust, odors, vibration, water pollution or safety hazards;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be designed
so as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares;
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a natural,
scenic, or historic feature of major importance; and
   J.   Will be adequately screened from public ways and neighboring properties
by means of fencing or landscaping. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-15-4: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
   A.   Each application will be reviewed at a public hearing, for which
adequate public notice will be given.
   B.   A completed application will be heard by the commission at a public
hearing within forty five (45) days of its receipt. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
   C.   Notice of time, date, and place of the hearing and a summary of the
proposal shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the County at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, by
mailing such notice to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') and
by posting such notice on the property. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018
Code)
   D.   The Administrator shall also give notice by United States mail to each
property owner whose name appears on the list accompanying the application,
giving the time, date, and place of the hearing, the relief sought, the
identification of the property under consideration, and such other facts as may
be prescribed by the Administrator. Individual mailings may be waived when the
aforementioned list includes the names of more than two hundred (200) property
owners or residents.
   E.   In any public hearing on a conditional use permit application, the
presiding officer may order the hearing to be continued up to fifteen (15) days
at the same place, in which case, no further published notice shall be
required. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-15-5: ACTION BY COMMISSION; NOTICE OF DECISION:
   A.   The commission shall enter an order approving, conditionally approving,
or disapproving the application within fifteen (15) days after conclusion of
the public hearing, together with the reasons therefor. Conditional uses are
subject to the conditions specified prior to issuance of their permits.
Conditions which may be attached include, but are not limited to, those which
will:
      1.   Minimize adverse impact on other development.
      2.   Control the sequence, timing, and duration of development.
      3.   Assure that development is maintained properly.
      4.   Designate the exact location and nature of development.
      5.   Require the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services.
      6.   Mitigate foreseeable social, economic, fiscal, and environmental
effects.
      7.   Require more restrictive standards than those generally required in
this title.
   B.   The Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the
commission's decision by mail within ten (10) days after the commission has
reached a decision. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-15-6: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF CERTAIN PERMITS:
It is recognized that certain types of conditional uses have the potential to
become public nuisances if mismanaged or operated improperly. Periodic review
of such conditional uses is therefore desirable. As a result, conditional use
permits for gravel or shale pits, concrete batch plants, mills refining mineral
ore, feedlots, processing plants, bulk storage of flammable liquids or gases,
and solid waste incineration shall expire two (2) years after their issuance or
most recent renewal. In each case, the Administrator shall be responsible to
notify the applicant of the date of expiration for his permit, and of the date
on which the commission shall discuss renewal of the permit. The commission is
vested with the authority to renew each permit that has expired and, in its
deliberations, shall consider any public comment offered. No fee is required
for renewal of a conditional use permit. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-15-7: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The issuance of a conditional use permit shall not be considered a
binding precedent for the issuance of other conditional use permits.
   B.   A conditional use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to
another. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 16
[RESERVED]
 
CHAPTER 17
DESIGN REVIEW
SECTION:
10-17-1: Authority And Purposes
10-17-2: Definitions
10-17-3: Design Review Approval Required
10-17-4: Application Procedure
10-17-5: Design Review Standards And Criteria
10-17-6: Building Permit; Occupancy; Security
10-17-7: Term And Limitations Of Approval
10-17-8: Maintenance, Repair And Replacement Of Design Review Improvements And
Landscaping
10-17-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSES:
This chapter and its regulations are adopted pursuant to the authority and
purposes of article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution, enabling statutes,
the Bellevue Charter, Idaho Code section 67-6501, the Bellevue Comprehensive
Plan, and this title, each incorporated herein by reference, and for the
following purposes:
   A.   To ensure that the general appearance of building design and
construction shall be orderly and harmonious;
   B.   To protect the historical character and significance of the community;
   C.   To ensure appropriate and adequate landscaping;
   D.   To protect and enhance the beauty and character of the community;
   E.   To minimize the impact of vehicular traffic on adjacent streets to
prevent traffic congestion;
   F.   To provide for proper ingress and egress with safe, adequate and
efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic systems;
   G.   To coordinate on site vehicular and nonvehicular traffic circulation
patterns with adjacent transportation systems;
   H.   To ensure efficient arrangement of on site parking, building location,
adequate accesses and uses of lands; and to minimize visual impact;
   I.   To provide for and protect existing light, air, solar access and
orientation, privacy, views and vistas by proper and efficient location of
building sites and design layout;
   J.   To protect and preserve wildlife, streams, natural topography and other
desirable natural features and qualities such as, but not limited to, skyline
ridgetops, knoll ridges, established trees and shrub masses, topsoil,
streambeds and stream banks, and drainage swales;
   K.   To provide adequate usable open space in a manner which is appropriate
for the development and uses of lands;
   L.   To prevent unnecessary excavation or fill for building foundations,
access roads, driveways and similar improvements;
   M.   To protect and conserve the economic base of the community, including
property values;
   N.   To encourage and promote energy conservation and alternative energy
sources as well as other advanced technologies; and
   O.   To prevent soil erosion and flood damage. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   All definitions set forth in this title, including subsequent
amendments hereto and subsequent zoning ordinances adopted by the City, are
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   The word "print", for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean any copy
of an original which reproduces exactly the original drawing. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-
20-2015)
10-17-3: DESIGN REVIEW APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Business, Limited Business/Residential, Light Industrial, Light
Industrial/Mixed Business, And Transitional Districts: No person shall commence
construction repairs on any new building, or placement of any building upon
property, or construction of any addition, alteration, or change to or
demolition of the exterior of any building, excluding necessary maintenance,
within the Business Zoning District, Limited Business/Residential Zoning
District, Light Industrial/Mixed Business Zoning District, Light Industrial
Zoning District, or Transitional Zoning District in the City without first
receiving applicable design review approval as required by this chapter. No
application for a building permit, demolition permit or other permit shall be
received or such permit issued by the City for such construction or other work,
excluding necessary maintenance, until design review approval has been obtained
as applicable herein. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Change Of Use: Change of use shall require an approved large scale
conditional use permit for any building exceeding a twenty eight thousand
(28,000) square foot building per parcel or lot and shall be in compliance with
defined uses per sections
10-7-2 and
10-7-4 of this title and shall comply with chapter 16 of this title.
   C.   ADU (Accessory Dwelling Unit), Multi-Family And Townhouses In All
Zoning Districts: No person shall commence construction or placement of any
ADU, multi-family dwelling or townhouse, or make any addition, alteration or
change to the exterior of any such building, or commence demolition, excluding
necessary maintenance thereof, within any zoning district within the City
without first having obtained design review approval therefor under the
procedures, requirements, standards and criteria of this chapter. The design
review application shall provide all the information required in section
10-17-4 of this chapter. In order to receive approval, the application shall
meet the standards and criteria set forth in subsections 10-17-5A1 through A10,
inclusive; subsections 10-17-5B1b through B1d; and subsections 10-17-5C1
through C7, inclusive, of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-17-4: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   The following materials and information, together with the application
form and fees, shall constitute a complete application for design review and
shall be filed by the applicant prior to consideration of the application by
the commission:
      1.   Site map of the property upon which the proposed construction is to
occur shall be submitted in sufficient detail to show the following:
         a.   Exterior boundary lines of the property, together with
dimensions.
         b.   Location of proposed and existing structures, with dimensions
thereof, showing the setback of each structure from the nearest property line.
         c.   Location of on site parking spaces, ADA accessible spaces,
loading zones and access thereto, including the dimensions of the spaces and
the width and length of access.
         d.   Location and dimensions of snow storage areas.
         e.   Location of dumpster and/or garbage can storage areas including
the dimensions and proposed fencing or other screening.
         f.   Designation of the zoning district in which the project is
located.
         g.   Location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation patterns,
easements and proposed improvements with regard thereto.
         h.   Contour lines of five foot (5') intervals to show proposed slope
and topography of the property.
         i.   Location of existing and proposed adjacent street rights-of-way,
fire hydrants, sewer lines, water lines and other utilities, and plans for the
separate connection to and extension of each utility to each unit or building.
         j.   Indication of direction of snow slide from the roof and drip line
of all buildings.
         k.   Location of existing structures on adjacent properties.
         l.   Location of on site trash and personal property storage.
         m.   One large vicinity map and one reduced vicinity map depicting
adjacent streets, floodplains, and applicable zoning and comprehensive land use
designations.
      2.   Preliminary schematic drawings of the proposed construction shall be
submitted to show the following:
         a.   Floor plan at not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") scale.
         b.   Seven (7) reduced exterior elevations with facades and other
exterior elements shown in color.
         c.   Type and color of exterior materials and roofing, with samples
thereof.
         d.   Location and type of exterior lighting.
         e.   A colored model for all new buildings not including additions or
buildings less than three thousand (3,000) square feet.
      3.   Landscape plan and legend shall be submitted in sufficient detail to
show the following:
         a.   One large and seven (7) proposed landscape plans of the project
including calculations depicting percentage of land area being landscaped,
types and size of trees, ground cover and other vegetation.
         b.   Proposed excavation or land fill including resulting slope
grades.
         c.   Location and height of walls or fences.
         d.   Drip or other low consumption irrigation system for landscaping.
         e.   Drainage plan including off site improvements.
         f.   Street trees shall be a minimum of three inch (3") caliper and
planted at spacing not less than one tree for every thirty five feet (35') of
public street right-of-way, excluding alleys. All trees shall comply with the
Bellevue Street Tree Guidelines, and an approved encroachment permit shall be
obtained from ITD or the City.
   B.   The applicant shall file the application form and fees, together with
the materials required by subsection A of this section, with the City Planning
and Zoning Administrator not less than fifteen (15) days prior to a regularly
scheduled meeting of Planning and Zoning Commission. Prior to the meeting or
thereafter, the applicant shall provide such other information as may be
reasonably requested by the commission or by the Administrator. Construction
plans or working drawings are not required prior to design review, but will be
at the time of a building permit.
   C.   At a noticed Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, the application
shall be presented, together with required materials and information. A design
review application is not a public hearing. The commission shall be briefed of
the application by staff, receive comment from the applicant, and may take
public comment from interested persons. The commission shall approve, deny or
conditionally approve the application based on design review standards and
criteria, and notify the applicant of the commission's decision by the close of
the commission's next noticed scheduled meeting, not to exceed thirty (30) days
from the design review meeting, except the commission may table an application
until it receives requested information, or for additional review due to the
complexity of the application, or problems with regard thereto. (Ord. 2015-02,
4-20-2015)
10-17-5: DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
The following list of design review criteria shall be met by each applicant
seeking design review approval. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall use
said criteria to determine whether a project is to be approved or denied. A
building which is allowed by right in this title may be reduced in bulk, height
or other physical dimension by requirement of the commission only if found
necessary to protect the public health, safety and/or welfare. If a development
project is to be built in phases, each phase shall be subject to the design
standards and criteria described in this section, and each phase independently
shall meet said criteria and standards.
   A.   Site Planning:
      1.   Buildings shall be situated in a manner that preserves existing land
forms, trees and other significant vegetation and shall not interrupt waterways
or change other natural drainage patterns in a manner which adversely affects
adjacent property. Removal of existing trees of greater than six inch (6")
caliper is subject to review.
      2.   Buildings shall be sited so that their form does not break prominent
natural ridge lines.
      3.   Buildings and parking areas shall be clustered to provide for more
usable open space. All accesses from alleys shall require improvements
installed by the applicant/owner when applicable including, but not limited to,
an asphalt surface or compacted gravel surface as determined by the City Public
Works Department. The applicant/owner shall be responsible for relocation of
applicable City services/utilities, repair of any damaged City services, snow
plowing and snow removal.
      4.   The alignment of roads and driveways shall follow the contours of
the site, and cuts and fills shall be minimized.
      5.   Retaining walls shall be discouraged, and such walls over three feet
(3') high shall be stepped to form a number of benches to be landscaped.
      6.   Exterior lighting systems shall not create glare nor cast light on
neighboring properties. Night lighting shall be only what is needed to promote
safe use, preferably with energy conserving lighting of low intensity.
      7.   A snow storage plan, as a component of the site plan, is required.
The plan shall comply with the following requirements:
         a.   Use of sidewalks and required parking areas for snow storage is
prohibited.
         b.   Snow storage within one hundred feet (100') of stream banks is
prohibited.
         c.   Use of landscaped areas for snow storage may be allowed under the
approved snow storage plan.
         d.   Snow storage areas shall be incorporated in site design as well
as designs that anticipate snow shedding areas.
         e.   Snow storage areas shall not adversely affect neighboring
properties.
         f.   Building design shall prevent water from dripping or snow from
sliding on pedestrian areas, entrances of buildings, garages and adjacent
properties.
         g.   Snow storage areas for parking lots containing twenty (20) spaces
or more shall be located on site in an amount which is equal to at least one-
third (1/3) of the hard surfaces proposed with the project. The one-third (1/3)
amount may be reduced by the use of a snowmelt system, or for good cause
demonstrated.
         h.   Where snow storage areas cannot be provided on site because of
existing buildings or approved building design, an adequate snow hauling plan
shall be submitted for and subject to approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
The Planning and Zoning Commission may impose such restrictions on snow removal
operations as are necessary to reduce the effects of noise or traffic on
surrounding areas.
      8.   Visual impact of on site parking, service, trash and loading areas
shall be minimized whenever possible by locating these areas to the rear of the
building and providing screening with landscaping or fences from adjacent
properties and public ways.
      9.   Adequate enclosed on site storage for trash shall be provided for
each unit of accessory dwelling units, multi-family and townhouses.
      10.   All utilities shall be installed underground in accordance with the
City standards and in a manner and location approved by the City Engineer.
      11.   Building and parking areas shall be designed to provide proper
ingress and egress; safe, adequate and efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic circulation; and the efficient and safe arrangement of on site parking,
building location, and circulation.
      12.   Multi-family and townhouses shall provide a minimum of two (2) on
site parking spaces for each unit. Accessory dwelling unit parking requirements
shall be one off street parking space for a one bedroom ADU and two (2) parking
spaces for ADUs with two (2) to three (3) bedrooms.
      13.   Adequate unobstructed access for emergency vehicles, snowplows,
garbage trucks and similar service vehicles to all necessary locations within
the proposed project shall be provided.
   B.   Architecture:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   Building and shopfront design and construction shall reflect
historical architecture styles and shall incorporate building materials,
architectural design and features representative of that historical period in
Bellevue between 1880 and 1910. That architectural style includes frame and
brick construction, frame and shiplap siding construction, horizontal log
construction, and similar westward expansion motifs. Also, building design and
construction shall preserve and incorporate any such existing structures and
features, signage, exterior fixtures and other items from that period.
         b.   A building exceeding eight thousand five hundred (8,500) square
feet of building coverage shall incorporate a change in facade design,
materials, color and/or height, or a combination thereof, that such building
appears to be more than one building. These changes shall occur at a minimum of
every fifty feet (50') of wall facade visible by the general public and at the
ceiling line of the first floor on two-story buildings. In addition, the facade
shall change in depth a minimum of two feet (2') at each such change in facade.
         c.   All buildings in the B Business District shall have a minimum
setback from wall/foundation to property line adjacent to Main Street/Highway
75 of three feet (3'), providing an area for covered seating, planters, special
event advertising units and displays of merchandise, in addition to the
specified requirements of subsection B1b of this section.
         d.   All exterior mechanical equipment shall be screened on all sides
with materials and colors matching the approved structure.
         e.   Mechanical equipment and solar panels shall be hidden or de-
emphasized.
         f.   Metal siding shall not be permitted on buildings on parcels of
real property abutting Main Street (State Highway 75) unless deemed appropriate
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. All such buildings shall be constructed
of or faced with materials that are similar in texture, finish, and appearance
to natural materials. The use of natural materials such as wood, brick and
stone shall be encouraged, and exterior wall colors shall be of natural earth
tones.
         g.   Exterior lighting systems shall not create glare nor cast light
on neighboring properties. Night lighting shall be only what is needed to
promote safe use, preferably with energy conserving lighting of low intensity.
         h.   Accessory dwelling unit sizes shall comply with section
10-2-1 of this title.
      2.   Multi-Family And Townhouses: Multi-family and townhouses shall
maintain traditional rural, small town development patterns and architectural
styles in keeping with the existing character of the area and location of the
site. Multi-family and townhouse design, style, scale, and aesthetics shall
blend with its neighborhood. There shall be no repetitive side by side
development of buildings. The City is looking for individual buildings by
varying types and styles to make for a pleasant streetscape experience.
      3.   Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs): ADUs shall maintain traditional
rural, small town development patterns and architectural styles in keeping with
the existing character of the area and emulate the primary structure of the
site. Design, style, scale, and esthetics shall blend with its neighborhood.
Building materials and exterior architectural design shall be reflective of
existing structures on the subject site and take into consideration the
architectural style and materials of the general vicinity.
   C.   Landscaping; Parking; Lighting:
      1.   Exterior light fixtures and signs shall be nonglaring in design and
installation so as not to adversely affect adjacent properties and public ways.
      2.   The design of fences, walls and retaining walls shall harmonize with
the site and buildings in scale as well as in materials.
      3.   Preservation of significant natural features such as water, view,
topography, and vegetation shall be incorporated in the landscape plan.
      4.   Site conditions, drought tolerance and local hardiness shall be
considered to select appropriate plant species, including grasses for lawn
areas.
      5.   Landscaping shall provide a substantial buffer between incompatible
land uses and shall be used to screen from view and to mitigate visual impact
of parking areas, loading areas, and garbage containers from adjacent
properties and public ways.
      6.   Installation of adequate drip or other low consumption irrigation
systems shall be required. Landscaping shall be properly irrigated and
maintained, and landscaping, or any portion thereof, shall be replaced when it
dies or is otherwise destroyed.
      7.   Adequate drainage shall be provided on site.
      8.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the parking area of parking lots
with twenty (20) spaces or more shall be landscaped with islands, dividers, or
a combination of the two. Parking lots with twenty (20) spaces or more will
have a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the required landscaped area installed
adjacent to Main Street/Highway 75 unless otherwise approved by the commission
due to extensive curb cuts and vision safety concerns.
      9.   All public rights-of-way adjacent to subject property including
alleys shall be improved with, but not limited to, asphalt/concrete/compacted
gravel, and applicable curbing, gutter, drainage, ADA standards, lighting,
sidewalks and striping as recommended by the Public Works Director.
   D.   Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks And Street Tree Requirements: Within the B
Business, LB/R Limited Business/Residential, LI/B Light Industrial/Mixed
Business and LI Light Industrial Zoning Districts, curbs, gutters, sidewalks
and street trees are required and shall be installed along the street frontage
of each lot or parcel of real property upon which a new building or a "major
addition" (defined as requiring a building permit and having a cost of
construction exceeding $50,000.00) is constructed. Such improvements shall be
constructed in accordance with the applicable construction standards and
ordinances of the City. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-17-6: BUILDING PERMIT; OCCUPANCY; SECURITY:
The building inspector shall not issue a building permit for any structures or
work required to obtain design review approval unless and until the building
plans submitted comply with design review approval. Furthermore, the building
inspector shall not issue a Certificate of Occupancy for any such structure
until, upon final inspection, the project is constructed in accordance with the
approved design review application and plans, and all improvements, amenities
and landscaping have been installed, or until the applicant has posted with the
City an irrevocable letter of credit or certified funds or other security which
has been accepted by the City Council in the sum of one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the bona fide estimate of the cost of installing said improvements,
landscaping and amenities. Said security shall require full performance within
a period not to exceed twelve (12) months and shall be accepted only in
situations where inclement weather or other similar circumstances prevents
completion prior to occupancy. In the event the improvements are not
constructed within the time allowed by the City Council, the Council may order
the improvements installed at the expense of the owner and the surety. In the
event the cost of installing the required improvements exceeds the amount of
the security, the owner shall be liable to the City for the additional costs
thereof. The cost of installing required improvements that exceed the amount of
the security shall automatically become a lien upon the subject property. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-17-7: TERM OF AND LIMITATIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   The term of design review approval shall be one year from the date of
final action by the commission or, upon appeal, the date the approval is
granted by the Council. Such approval is subject to changes in zoning or other
regulations applicable to the project.
   B.   Failure to file a complete building permit application for a project in
accordance with the design review approval, or the abandonment, forfeiture or
loss of a building permit, shall constitute termination of any design review
approval, and said approval shall then be null and void. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
10-17-8: MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT OF DESIGN REVIEW IMPROVEMENTS AND
LANDSCAPING:
   A.   All design review improvements and landscaping shall be installed,
maintained, repaired and replaced in accordance with City standards or, in the
absence thereof, in accordance with prevailing engineering or industry
standards within Blaine County.
   B.   No person shall permit any improvement set forth in the approved design
review plans to be in a state of disrepair or any landscaping to die. All
design review improvements and landscaping shall be maintained, repaired and
replaced in accordance with the approved design review plans. All such repair
shall be completed within thirty (30) days of damage or disrepair, and all
replacement shall be completed within thirty (30) days of the damage or
destruction of said improvements or death of said landscape item. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 18
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-18-1: Definition And Limitations
10-18-2: Application For Variance
10-18-3: Public Hearing And Notice
10-18-4: Criteria For Review
10-18-5: Action By Commission; Notice Of Decision
10-18-6: Resubmission Of Application
10-18-7: Expiration Of Variance
10-18-1: DEFINITION AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   A variance is defined as a modification of the requirements on this
title regarding lot size, lot coverage, lot width, lot depth, front yard, side
yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space and location, height of buildings, or
other provisions affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of
a structure upon lots, or the size of lots.
   B.   A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but
may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship because of
characteristics of the site, and only when the variance will not conflict with
the public interest. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-18-2: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Any person seeking a variance shall apply to the commission on a form
provided by the Administrator, which shall be accompanied by the fees. This
application shall include a map showing the lots and parcels of land within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the property in
question, together with a list of the names and addresses of the owners of each
parcel within the three hundred feet (300').
   B.   A variance application may be submitted and reviewed concurrently with
other applications affecting the same piece of property, with the approval of
the Administrator. Additional time for review of concurrent applications may be
specified by the Administrator. Concurrent submissions will be voted on
separately. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-18-3: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
Each application will be reviewed at a public hearing, for which adequate
public notice will be given.
   A.   A completed application will be heard by the commission at a public
hearing within forty five (45) days of its receipt.
   B.   Notice of the time, date and place of the hearing, and a summary of the
proposal, shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the County at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, and
a second publication within the week immediately prior to the scheduled date.
   C.   The Administrator shall also give notice by United States mail to each
property owner whose name appears on the list accompanying the application
giving the time, date, and place of the hearing, the relief sought, the
identification of the property under consideration, and such other facts as may
be prescribed by the Administrator.
   D.   In any public hearing on a variance application, the presiding officer
may order the hearing to be continued up to fifteen (15) days at the same
place, in which case, no further published notice shall be required. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-18-4: CRITERIA FOR REVIEW:
The commission has the authority to grant variances and shall consider the
following factors in ruling on a variance application:
   A.   Whether the granting of the variance will conflict with the public
interest as expressed in the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Whether there are exceptional conditions creating an undue hardship
applicable only to the property involved or the intended use thereof which do
not apply generally to the property or class of use in the zone or district.
   C.   Whether the granting of such relief will be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare.
   D.   Whether the owner can derive a reasonable use of his land without a
variance.
   E.   Whether the variance will effect a change in zoning.
   F.   Whether the variance will be injurious to the property or improvements
of others. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-18-5: ACTION BY COMMISSION; NOTICE OF DECISION:
   A.   The commission shall enter an order approving, conditionally approving
or disapproving the application within fifteen (15) days after conclusion of
the public hearing, together with the reasons therefor. In acting upon such
applications, the commission may specify that approval shall be contingent upon
the acceptance of conditions it deems necessary to protect the general welfare
and the rights of all affected property owners. The application shall be denied
upon a finding by the commission that granting such relief will be detrimental
to the public health, safety, or welfare.
   B.   The Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the
commission's decision by mail within ten (10) days after the commission has
reached a decision. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-18-6: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a variance that has been denied by the commission or the
Council or withdrawn by the applicant may be resubmitted within one year of the
final date of action thereon. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-18-7: EXPIRATION OF VARIANCE:
All variances shall expire one year after their issuance if a building permit
has not been obtained for the purpose of exercising the variance. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 19
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-19-1: Authority To Amend
10-19-2: Definition
10-19-3: Initiation Of Amendments
10-19-4: Review Of Proposed Amendment; Action By Commission
10-19-5: Action By Council
10-19-6: Resubmission Of Application
10-19-1: AUTHORITY TO AMEND:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, or general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, the Council may, by ordinance, amend, supplement or repeal
the provisions of this title in accordance with the procedures of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-19-2: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the word "amendment" shall mean any change,
supplement, or repeal of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015)
10-19-3: INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS:
Amendments may be initiated by adoption of a motion by the commission or
Council or by the filing of an application with the Administrator by any
person. Application for amendments shall contain at least the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Proposed amendment.
   C.   Present land use.
   D.   Present zoning district and proposed zoning district.
   E.   Proposed use.
   F.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the Administrator may require.
   G.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered.
   H.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the Comprehensive
Plan, availability of public facilities, and compatibility with the surrounding
area. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-19-4: REVIEW OF PROPOSED AMENDMENT; ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Review: The commission shall review proposed amendments in
the following manner:
      1.   Proposed amendments, by application or by motion of the commission
or Council, shall be submitted to the commission which shall evaluate the
proposal to determine the nature and extent of the amendment, and whether or
not it is in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   If the proposal is in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan, the
commission may recommend and the Council may adopt or reject the amendment
under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided.
      3.   If the proposal is not in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan,
the commission shall notify the applicant of this finding and inform the
applicant that he or she must apply for an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan
before this title may be amended in accordance with the provisions herein.
   B.   Public Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing and make
recommendations on proposed amendments.
   C.   Text Or Map Amendments: Amendments may consist of text or map
revisions.
      1.   Text Amendments: The commission, prior to recommending a text
amendment to the Council shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the
amendment shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
Blaine County. Following the commission's hearing, if the commission makes a
material change from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice
and hearing shall be provided before the commission forwards the amendment with
its recommendation to the Council.
      2.   Map Amendments: The commission, prior to recommending to the Council
a map amendment that is in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan, shall
conduct at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an
opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing,
notice of the time and place and a summary of the amendment shall be published
in the official newspaper. Additional notice shall be provided by mail to
property owners and residents within the land being considered, within three
hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered,
and any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed change as
determined by the commission. When notice is required to two hundred (200) or
more property owners or residents, in lieu of the mail notification, three (3)
notices in the official newspaper is sufficient; provided, that, the third
notice appears ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. Following the
commission's hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the
Council.
   D.   Recommendations: Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the
proposed amendment, the commission shall transmit its recommendations to the
Board. The commission may recommend that the amendment be granted as requested,
or it may recommend a modification of the amendment requested, or it may
recommend that the amendment be denied. The commission shall ensure that any
favorable recommendations for amendments are in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and established goals and objectives.
   E.   Recordkeeping: The commission shall maintain verbatim records of all
hearings, recommendations to the Council, and reasons for such recommendations.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-19-5: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
   A.   The Council, prior to adopting, revising, or rejecting the amendment as
recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least one public hearing using
notice and hearing procedures set forth in subsection 10-19-4C2 of this
chapter. Following the Council's hearing, if the Council makes a material
change from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice and
hearing shall be provided before the Council adopts the amendment.
   B.   The Council shall accept the recommendation of the commission unless
rejected by a vote of a majority of the members.
   C.   Upon adopting, revising, or rejecting a proposed amendment, the Council
shall specify the reasons for its decision.
   D.   Upon approval of an amendment as recommended by the commission or as
revised by the Council, the Council shall pass an ordinance making said
amendment a part of this title. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-19-6: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the Council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same premises or
the same purposes within a period of one year from the date of such final
action, unless there is an amendment in the Comprehensive Plan which resulted
from a change in conditions as applying to the specific property under
consideration. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 20
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-20-1: Purpose
10-20-2: Continuation Of Use Or Building
10-20-3: Change Of Use
10-20-4: Expansion Of Use Or Building
10-20-5: Discontinuance Of Use
10-20-6: Repairs
10-20-7: Restoration Of Use Or Building
10-20-8: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-20-9: Existing Illegal Uses And Buildings
10-20-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy of this title to allow the continuation of existing
nonconforming uses and buildings, but not to encourage their survival or allow
an increase in size or intensity of use. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-2: CONTINUATION OF USE OR BUILDING:
A nonconforming use or building may be continued except as elsewhere provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-3: CHANGE OF USE:
A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use but may not be changed
to another category of nonconforming use. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-4: EXPANSION OF USE OR BUILDING:
   A.   Use: Nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged or extended after the
effective date hereof. Criteria used to determine enlargement or expansion of
use shall include, but are not limited to, square footage of building or use
space, traffic generated, area of land covered, and number of dwelling units. A
nonconforming use shall not be used as justification for adding other
structures or uses prohibited in the same district.
   B.   Building: A nonconforming building may be enlarged so long as the
enlargement does not increase the degree of nonconformity or create additional
nonconformities with respect to such matters including, but not limited to,
setbacks, parking requirements, and use. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
If active and continuous operations are not carried on in a nonconforming use
during a continuous period of six (6) months, the building or tract of land
shall thereafter be used only for a conforming use. The intent to resume active
operation shall not be considered active and continuous operation, unless
written intent of continuation, including a timetable therefor, is filed with
the Council within the six (6) month period, and such timetable is reasonable
and there is compliance therewith. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-6: REPAIRS:
   A.   On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, ordinary repair work may be done, including repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that
the repair does not increase the degree of nonconformity of the use or the
building.
   B.   Any structural alteration that would reduce the degree of nonconformity
or change the use to a conforming use is permitted.
   C.   Any structure containing a nonconforming use or any nonconforming
building or portion thereof declared unsafe by the building inspector may be
strengthened or restored to a safe condition. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-7: RESTORATION OF USE OR BUILDING:
A nonconforming building or a building containing a nonconforming use which has
been damaged by natural causes may be restored to its original condition,
provided such work is started within six (6) months of such damage. A
nonconforming building or use that is moved or torn down by the owner cannot be
replaced. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-8: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
   A.   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and accessory building may be erected on any single lot
of record at the effective date hereof, or amendment hereto, except where such
lots are located in identified hazardous areas and thereby limited. This
provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
lot area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district;
provided, that yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to
area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located.
   B.   A residential building on an undersized lot shall not be considered a
nonconforming building, provided the building meets the bulk and setback
requirements in that district. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-20-9: EXISTING ILLEGAL USES AND BUILDINGS:
All buildings and uses that existed prior to the effective date hereof and that
were, at that time, in violation of the then existing State Statutes or City
zoning regulations shall continue to be considered illegal uses. (Ord. 2015-02,
4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 21
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-21-1: Parking And Loading Facilities Required
10-21-2: General Parking And Loading Requirements
10-21-3: Additional Parking Requirements
10-21-4: Number Of Parking Spaces
10-21-5: Additional Loading Requirements
10-21-1: PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES REQUIRED:
Accessory parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required herein
for every building and structure erected and every land use established after
the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-21-2: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design And Location Of Parking And Loading Areas:
      1.   Whenever a new parking or loading area is located in or adjacent to
a residential area, it shall be effectively screened on all sides that adjoin
or face any property used for residences by a wall, fence, or planting screen
not less than four feet (4') in height. The space between such fence, wall, or
planting screen and the lot line of the adjoining premises in any residential
district shall be landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground
cover, and maintained in good condition.
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial, or institutional uses
shall be located not more than four hundred feet (400') from such use, provided
such parking shall not be located in a residential zoning district.
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories, or multi-family
dwellings shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from such
use.
   B.   Access: All spaces must have unobstructed access to and from streets or
alleys by means of a driveway not less than ten feet (10') wide. The total
length of curb cuts onto any one street shall be limited to twenty feet (20'),
except there shall be no limitation for parking accessed from an alley. Access
driveways for parking areas or loading spaces shall be located in such a way
that any vehicle entering or leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a
pedestrian or motorist approaching the access or driveway from a public or
private street.
   C.   Surface And Drainage: Off street parking and loading areas shall be
surfaced with asphalt, concrete, compacted gravel, crushed rock, or other
dustfree durable material. Drainage of surface water adequate to prevent flows
of water onto adjacent properties or walkways shall be provided.
   D.   Increase In Intensity Of Use; Change Of Use: When the intensity of any
use of any building, structure, or premises is increased through the addition
of dwelling units, net floor area, seating capacity or other units of
measurement as specified in this title, parking and loading facilities as
required herein shall be provided for such increased intensity of use. If the
building was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking and
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use. No required off street
parking space may be converted to any other use unless an equivalent amount of
additional parking space is provided. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-21-3: ADDITIONAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Parking Space Dimensions: The minimum parking dimensions are as
follows:
 
Angle    Width Length Aisle Width
90°     9.0'  19'    24'
60°     9.0'  21'    16'
45°     9.0'  19.8'  15'
Parallel 8.0'  23'    14'
 
   B.   Lighting: Any lights used to illuminate a parking area shall be
downcast and arranged such that adjoining property will not be affected, and
shall be in conformance with all other lighting regulations.
   C.   Joint Use: When times of use for several buildings do not normally
overlap, off street parking may be provided collectively and used jointly after
obtaining approval from the Council. Such joint use shall be evidenced by a
recorded agreement between the property owners and the City, which shall be
approved by the City Attorney.
   D.   Curbside Parking Is Counted: All existing improved parking spaces along
the public rights-of-way adjacent to a parcel of real property shall be counted
toward the on site parking requirements of such parcel set forth in this title,
provided such parking spaces are asphalt and have curbs, gutters, sidewalks and
drainage facilities installed in accordance with the City street standards
ordinance, and subsequent amendments thereto.
   E.   Credits For On Street Parking Improvements:
      1.   Nonresidential uses within the Business Zoning District and Limited
Business/Residential Zoning District may improve City public street rights-of-
way within said zoning districts within six hundred feet (600') of the real
property on which the use is located and may be credited with one on site
parking space for each two (2) on street parking spaces created by that right-
of- way improvement as provided in this subsection.
      2.   Any real property or business owner wishing to construct such on
street parking improvements shall make written application to the Common
Council. The application shall include construction drawings of the proposed
improvements stamped by a civil engineer licensed in the State of Idaho. The
application form shall be furnished by the City, and the applicant shall
provide all other information as may be reasonably required by the City. The
applicant shall also reimburse the City for all engineering costs incurred by
the City in the review of the application prior to final consideration of the
application by the City. The Council shall determine the location of new
parking spaces to be created by such on street parking improvements. Such on
street parking requirements shall include concrete curbs, gutters and
sidewalks, asphalt paving, storm drainage, street trees and irrigation, parking
lines, street lighting and any other improvements considered necessary or
appropriate by the Council. The location of the construction of such on street
parking improvements shall begin at street corners and thereafter be
constructed in a continuous manner. If construction of such on street parking
improvements begins at a corner, then the applicant shall improve the entire
corner to the point where parking spaces may begin again. The Administrator
shall give notice by United States mail to each property owner within three
hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered for
parking improvements of the date of the meeting at which the City Council shall
consider the application.
      3.   All on street improvements for parking spaces shall be constructed
in accordance with the City street standards ordinance and other applicable
City standards.
      4.   No parking created within any public right-of-way shall be held or
used for the exclusive parking of any business or property, but shall be open
to the use by the general public subject to the police powers of the City and
Idaho Transportation Department. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-21-4: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES:
Every use shall provide at least the minimum number of parking spaces required
for that use based on the formula listed in this section. Off street parking
spaces, each containing at least one hundred eighty (180) square feet or as set
forth in subsection 10-21-3A of this chapter shall be required in all districts
for residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional uses, as follows.
All areas counted as off street parking space shall be unobstructed and free of
other uses and shall be located totally outside of any street or alley right-
of-way. Parking requirements for a use not specifically mentioned shall be the
same as for a use specified below which has similar traffic generating
characteristics, as determined by the Planning and Zoning Administrator or
Commission.
   A.   Residential Uses: The following are the off street parking requirements
for residential uses in all zoning districts:
 
Type Of Use                         Number Of Spaces Required
Boarding and rooming houses, ADUs,  1 space for each sleeping room or every 3
dormitories                         beds, whichever is greater
Duplexes and townhouse developments 2 spaces for each residential unit
Manufactured/mobile home parks      2 spaces for each mobile home
Single-family residences            2 spaces minimum with a maximum of 5 spaces
 
   B.   Business District Uses: The following are the off street parking
requirements for the uses within the Business Zoning District:
Type Of Use Number Of Spaces Required
Type Of Use                            Number Of Spaces Required
For all uses not listed in this        1 space for every 800 square feet of net
subsection                             floor area
                                       1 space for each 4 persons at the rated
Auditoriums, arenas, theaters          maximum occupancy of the building (per
                                       Fire Code)
                                       1 space for each gas pump (spaces
Auto gas stations                      adjacent to gas pumps count), plus 1
                                       space for each on shift employee
Auto rental                            1 space for each vehicle to be rented
                                       2 spaces for each service bay (excludes
                                       interior bay space), plus 1 space for
Auto service stations and repair       each on shift employee and 1 space for
garages                                every 600 square feet of net floor area;
                                       1 exterior space in front of each
                                       service bay door may be counted
                                       1 space for each 5,000 square feet of
Automobile sales                       lot area, plus 1 space for each vehicle
                                       displayed
                                       3 spaces for each bowling lane, plus 1
Bowling alleys                         space for each 250 square feet of
                                       restaurant and/or cocktail lounge floor
                                       area
                                       2 spaces for each bay or stall (interior
Car washes                             bay spaces count), plus 1 space for each
                                       vacuum or drying machine
                                       1 space for each 3 employees, plus 1
Cartage, express, and parcel delivery  space for each vehicle maintained and 1
and trucking businesses                space for each 250 square feet of net
                                       floor area
                                       1 space for each 200 square feet of net
Convenience stores                     floor area, plus 1 space for each
                                       employee on shift
Funeral parlors, mortuaries            1 space for each 200 square feet of net
                                       floor area
Hotels, motels, and tourist homes      1 space for each sleeping room, plus 1
                                       space for each 2 employees on shift
Offices, administration buildings      1 space for each 300 square feet of net
                                       floor area
Outdoor areas for display of goods for 1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
sale, lease, or rental                 land area used as such
Outdoor athletic fields, parks, or     1 space for each 5,000 square feet of
basketball or tennis courts            gross land area
Restaurants, taverns, bars, nightclubs 1 space for each 500 square feet of net
                                       floor space
Retail stores                          1 space for each 500 square feet of net
                                       floor area
Tennis courts (indoor)                 1 space for each tennis court, plus the
                                       spaces required for accessory uses
 
   C.   Institutional Uses: The following are the off street parking
requirements for institutional uses in all zoning districts:
Type Of Use Number Of Spaces Required
Type Of Use                       Number Of Spaces Required
Cemeteries                        1 space for each employee on shift
                                  1 space for each 4 persons at the rated
Churches                          maximum occupancy of the building (per Fire
                                  Code)
Hospitals                         1 space for each 2 beds, plus 1 space for
                                  each 2 employees on shift
Libraries                         1 space for each 400 square feet of net floor
                                  area
Medical and dental clinics        1 space for each 200 square feet of net floor
                                  area
Nursing homes, homes for the aged 1 space for each 3 beds, plus 1 space for
                                  each 2 employees on shift
Post Office                       1 space for each 100 post office boxes, plus
                                  1 space for each 2 employees on shift
 
   D.   Schools: The following are the off street parking requirements for
schools in all zoning districts:
 
Type Of Use                      Number Of Spaces Required
Colleges and trade schools       1 space for each 3 students and 1 space for
                                 each teacher and each employee on shift
                                 1 space for each teacher and for each employee
Elementary schools               on shift or 1 space for every 2 persons rated
                                 capacity of assembly areas (per Fire Code),
                                 whichever is greater
                                 1 space for each 5 students and 1 space for
                                 each teacher and for each employee on shift,
High schools                     or 1 space for each 2 persons rated capacity
                                 of all assembly areas (per Fire Code),
                                 whichever is greater
                                 1 space for each teacher and for each employee
Junior high/middle schools       on shift, or 1 space for every 2 persons rated
                                 capacity of assembly areas (per Fire Code),
                                 whichever is greater
Nursery schools, daycare centers 1 space for each 500 square feet of net floor
                                 area; minimum of 2 spaces per building
 
   E.   Light Industrial Uses: The following are the off street parking
requirements for all types of manufacturing, storage, wholesale distribution
and all other light industrial uses:
Type Of Use Number Of Spaces Required
Type Of Use                            Number Of Spaces Required
For all uses except those as set forth 1 space for each 600 square feet of net
in this subsection                     gross floor area
                                       2 spaces per service bay, plus 1 space
                                       per employee, plus 1 space per every 600
Auto repair service                    square feet of net gross floor area; 1
                                       exterior space in front of each service
                                       bay door may be counted; 1 interior
                                       space per service bay may be counted
Industrial laundry use and             1 space for each 600 square feet of net
manufacturing/processing               gross floor area
                                       1 space per every 250 square feet of net
                                       gross retail floor area, plus 1 space
Landscape nurseries and lumberyards    per each 2,500 square feet of net gross
                                       warehouse area or land area, plus 1
                                       space per each company owned vehicle
                                       used for the subject business
Light industrial uses                  1 space for each 600 square feet of net
                                       gross floor area
Offices                                1 space for each 600 square feet of net
                                       gross floor area
Storage                                1 space for each 750 square feet of net
                                       gross floor area
 
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-21-5: ADDITIONAL LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate off street loading spaces for commercial, industrial and
institutional uses shall be provided so that loading need not take place from
public streets.
   B.   Off street loading facilities such as a dock or platform shall not
project into the public right-of-way setback area. They shall be conveniently
accessible from streets or alleys.
   C.   The required off street loading berths shall not be part of the same
area used to satisfy the off street parking requirements.
   D.   Only alleys located west and east of Main Street/Highway 75 in the
Business, Light Industrial, Light Industrial/Mixed Business, and Limited
Business/Residential Districts shall be allowed to be used as a required off
street loading space/facility. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 22
SIGNS, LIGHTING AND FENCES
SECTION:
10-22-1: Purpose; Statute Authority
10-22-1: PURPOSE; STATUTE AUTHORITY:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish standards for the fabrication,
erection, and use of signs, lighting, and fences within the City. These
standards are designed to protect and promote the public welfare, health, and
safety of persons within the community; to protect property values; to promote
traffic safety; to provide visibility and to aid in the development and
promotion of business by providing regulations which encourage aesthetic
creativity, effectiveness, flexibility in the design and use of such devices;
and to promote energy conservation; and is adopted in accordance with the
authority granted in Idaho Code sections 67-6518 and 67-6511 and all applicable
laws. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
ARTICLE A. SIGNS
SECTION:
10-22A-1: Purpose
10-22A-2: Definitions
10-22A-3: Permit Requirements
10-22A-4: Restrictions; Prohibited Signs
10-22A-5: Home Occupation Signs Permitted In All Districts
10-22A-6: Permitted Signs For Uses Conducted On Same Premises (On Site) In
Business, Light Industrial/Mixed Business, Light Industrial And Limited
Business/Residential Districts
10-22A-7: Off Site Signs In All Districts
10-22A-8: Exempt Signs
10-22A-9: Nonconforming Or Damaged Or Deteriorating Signs
10-22A-10: Design And Construction Standards
10-22A-11: Maintenance And Repair
10-22A-12: Removal And Disposition Of Certain Signs
10-22A-13: Colors And Materials For Signs In The Historical Overlay District
10-22A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish standards for the fabrication,
erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising devices within
the City. These standards are enacted to:
   A.   Protect the public health, safety, and welfare of persons within the
community.
   B.   Aid in the development and promotion of business and industry.
   C.   Encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and flexibility in the
design of such devices without creating a detriment to the general public.
   D.   Reduce hazardous situations, confusion and visual clutter caused by
proliferation, improper placement or illumination, and/or bulk of signs which
compete for the attention of pedestrian and vehicular traffic. (2018 Code)
10-22A-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer advertises a bona fide business, owner,
lessor, product or activity conducted.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
ARCHITECTURAL BLADE: A roof sign or projecting sign with no visible legs or
braces, designed to look as though it could have been part of the building
structure rather than something suspended from or standing on the building.
AREA OF SIGN: The area of the face of the sign per side which forms the
integral part of the display including letters and art, but excluding the
necessary supports, background or uprights on which the signage area may be
placed.
ART: Any form that is used to depict form or beauty that is not part of the
commercial message of the sign such as scenery.
AWNING: A shelter supported entirely by the exterior wall of the building or
structure it is attached to.
BANNER OR PENNANT: A temporarily placed piece of cloth, plastic, paper, or
other such material varying in size, shape, or design, erected as an
advertising device.
BUILDING COMPLEX: A building or group of buildings within a single
architectural plan (like the NAPA building), housing two (2) or more commercial
units separated by fire walls, and having their own outside entrance, or
entrance from a common lobby like a mall, such as shopping centers,
professional office buildings, etc. The building owner may elect to designate a
building a complex.
BUILDING FACE OR WALL: All wall area, including windows and doors, of a
building in one plane or elevation.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The linear width of a principal building fronting the street
address right-of-way.
CANOPY, AWNING OR MARQUEE SIGN: Any such sign attached to or constructed in or
on a canopy, awning or marquee.
CANOPY, STRUCTURAL: Any cover or structure that uses a permanent roof structure
to provide protection from weather supported by upright support columns or the
principal building itself.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, AUTOMATIC: An electronically or electrically controlled
time, temperature and date sign, message center or reader board where different
copy changes are shown on the same sign structure or location.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, MANUAL: A sign on which copy or sign panels may be
changed manually, such as boards with changeable letters or changeable
pictorial boards.
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
COMMUNITY OR CIVIC EVENT: A public event which is of interest to the community
as a whole. This does not include any commercial product, goods or services.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign identifying a building or construction site
and the architects, engineers, financial institutions, contractors, and
suppliers involved.
COPY: The wording on a sign surface.
DESIGN REVIEW COMMISSION: This commission shall be the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
FENCE: A barrier, railing, hedge, wall, lattice work, screen, or other upright
structure, typically of wood or wire, enclosing an area of ground to make a
boundary.
FLASHING SIGN: Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation or an externally mounted intermittent light source.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign separate from a building, being supported by itself
or on legs. A sign structure constructed of multiple upright supports, or a
monument style. No single pole structures shall be allowed. All pole signs,
excluding antiqued ornamental iron (like Southern Belle) or decorative logs, a
minimum of fourteen inches (14") in diameter shall be designed and cased as a
monument style sign structure.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the adjacent street grade
or upper surface of the street curb to the highest point of said sign.
INTERNALLY LIGHTED SIGN: A sign which is wholly or partially illuminated by an
internal light source from which source light passes through the display
surface to the exterior of the sign.
MARQUEE SIGN: Any permanent rooflike structure projecting beyond a building.
This is generally designed to provide protection from the weather and usually
has changeable copy letters on it (i.e., a theater marquee).
MURAL: A picture or scene painted directly on a wall for aesthetic purposes.
NEON SIGN: Any sign or portion of a building illuminated or outlined by tubes
using electrically stimulated neon or other gas.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any advertising structure or sign which was erected and
maintained prior to the effective date hereof, and any amendments hereto, and
which fails to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions of this
article.
PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign other than a temporary sign.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or building, and
designed to be easily relocated; also referred to as a "sandwich board sign".
PREMISES: An area of land with its appurtenances and building(s) which, because
of its unity, is one unit of real property.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: The building in which the primary use for the property is
conducted.
   A.   In a single use, one business per building.
   B.   In a complex, multiple units located in a single building located under
one roof/architectural plan from which each business conducts its primary
business, having its own entrance from outside or from a common lobby or common
corridor like a mall.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign, other than a wall sign, which is attached to and
projects from a structure or building face (like Oak Street Deli).
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected upon, against, or directly above the primary
roofline of a building.
SIGN: A. Every advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia, surface or space erected or maintained in view
of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement, or promotion of the
interest of any person, entity, product, or service. This definition shall also
include the sign structure, supports, lighting system, and any attachments,
ornaments, or other features used to draw the attention of others.
   B.   Any structure or natural object or part thereof, or device attached
thereto, or painted or represented thereon, which shall be used to attract
attention to any product, place, activity, person, institution, organization,
or business; or which displays or includes any letter, word, model, banner,
flag, insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of,
an announcement, direction or advertisement.
TEMPORARY BUSINESS SIGN: A temporary business name sign that may be displayed
until a permanent business sign is acquired. A permit shall be acquired for
such sign, and the display period shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign which is not permanently affixed and has a limited
display period, after which it is removed.
TOTAL SIGNAGE: The sum of all areas encompassing letters, symbols and
associated art, excluding background and supports.
WALL SIGN: A sign painted on any surface area of a building, including windows
and doors attached to or erected against a wall, window or door of a building
with the face parallel to the building wall.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign installed for the purpose of viewing from the outside.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/87d90425055289042e71487af2ec8d24773e39fc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1153.gif]
 
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2021-06, 4-26-2021)
10-22A-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct,
alter, paint, or change the use of any sign, as defined in this article,
without first obtaining a sign permit from the Planning and Zoning
Administrator.
   B.   Application For Permit: All applications for sign permits shall be
accompanied by site plans drawn to scale which show the following
specifications: dimensions, lighting, colors, clearances, location, and
setbacks to property lines.
   C.   Denial Of Permit: The City Planning and Zoning Administrator and/or the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the authority to deny a sign permit
application for any sign that does not comply with the requirements of this
article. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-4: RESTRICTIONS; PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter,
maintain, or use any sign except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   No sign shall be placed in or over any public right-of-way without
receiving an approved encroachment permit from the applicable jurisdiction, ITD
or the City, except for public signs such as traffic control and directional
signs.
   C.   No sign in any zone shall be erected in such a manner as to obstruct
the free and clear vision of vehicular traffic and pedestrians, or at any
location where, by reason of similarity of position, shape, color, words or
symbols, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
   D.   The following signs are prohibited or have specified restrictions in
any zone:
      1.   Flashing, revolving, moving intermittent, or oscillating signs,
parts, attachments or lights.
      2.   Roof signs.
      3.   Neon signs on outsides of buildings unless neon tubes are used for
indirect illumination of lettering, not themselves visible (like Valley Car
Wash-Hailey).
      4.   Clocks shall be exempt.
      5.   Signs which advertise the sale of a product or business not located
within the City.
      6.   Signs using "day-glo", fluorescent, or brilliant luminescent colored
or neon lit backgrounds.
      7.   Any sign covering or obscuring windows, doors, storefronts, building
entrances, or other architectural elements.
      8.   Animated signs or part of a sign that changes physical position.
   E.   No banners or temporary signs may be used as permanent signs. After
they have exceeded their allowed use time, they shall be taken down. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-5: HOME OCCUPATION SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS:
One professional or home occupation sign not to exceed two (2) square feet of
signage area may be erected in any district. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-6: PERMITTED SIGNS FOR USES CONDUCTED ON SAME PREMISES (ON SITE) IN
BUSINESS, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL/MIXED BUSINESS, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND LIMITED
BUSINESS/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Sign Area:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the maximum allowable
individual building signage area in the Business, Limited Business/Residential,
Light Industrial, and Light Industrial/Mixed Business Districts shall not
exceed two (2.0) square feet of sign area per linear foot of building frontage
up to a maximum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet per building. If the
business is located at the intersection of two (2) streets, a second sign may
be located on the nonaddress side, not to exceed ten (10) square feet. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/87d90425055289042e71487af2ec8d24773e39fc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1155.gif]
 
(2018 Code)
      2.   Internally lighted signs shall not exceed a total of seventy five
(75) square feet of sign area per building.
      3.   Total combined signage area for multiple detached buildings on
single parcels shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet of allowable
signage area, including, but not limited to, wall, freestanding, portable and
projecting.
      4.   A square footage bonus will be added to the total square footage
allowed for each wall sign made of wooden materials or antiqued pre-aged metals
in the Business, Limited Business/Residential, Light Industrial/Mixed Business
and Light Industrial Districts. The bonus shall be equal to ten percent (10%)
of the total square footage of each such approved sign.
   B.   Number Of Signs: The maximum number of signs for a building complex
including, but not limited to, portable A-frame sidewalk signs, in the
Business, Limited Business/Residential, Light Industrial/Mixed Business and
Light Industrial Districts shall be as follows: One freestanding sign not to
exceed sixty (60) square feet per side for the complex, and one wall sign for
each business not to exceed thirty (30) square feet each, and they shall have a
common design.
   C.   Ranch Or Farm Identification Signs: Ranch or farm identification signs
incorporated into the entry gate shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet per
side.
   D.   Temporary Business Signs: Temporary business signs shall be permitted
after approval of the application is given by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator.
   E.   Inside Window Neon Signs: Inside window neon signs are permitted. The
total of all such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
   F.   Art: Any art that is an integral part of the lettering shall be
considered as part of the sign.
   G.   Illuminated Signs:
      1.   A sign lit by an external light source shall specifically illuminate
the signage area.
      2.   Signs using backlighting or internal lighting shall only illuminate
the signage area (letters-art). All other areas, including background, shall be
designed, treated and colored in a manner which makes those areas appear
opaque.
   H.   Neon Nonflashing, Nonchasing Signs: A maximum of one neon nonflashing,
nonchasing sign shall be allowed per building, regardless of whether a sign
permit is required, with a signage area not to exceed 1.5 square feet. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-7: OFF SITE SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Off site, nonilluminated signs for identification of commercial,
tourist, recreational, or cultural use shall be permitted, provided the use's
location is off Main Street. Off site signs shall be limited to one with a
maximum sign area of ten (10) square feet per side.
   B.   Any property owner leasing, renting, loaning, or donating space for an
off site sign to a commercial, tourist, recreational, or cultural use shall
forfeit that same amount of sign area for the property owner's own use.
   C.   Off site signs on vacant lots are prohibited except for a directional
sign to a business in the City limits which has a current, valid business
license. One sign is allowed per lot, with the size not to exceed ten (10)
square feet per side. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-8: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs are exempt from provisions of this chapter:
   A.   All signs erected in a public right-of-way by a public agency
controlling or directing traffic.
   B.   Political signs pertaining to a specific election displayed within any
district, provided they shall be removed within five (5) days after the
election.
   C.   Real estate signs:
      1.   One unlighted real estate sign in any zone not to exceed four (4)
square feet of sign area per side, provided it is located on the premises and
shall not occupy any portion of the public right-of-way.
      2.   One unlighted real estate sign advertising two (2) or more lots for
sale not to exceed twenty (20) square feet in area per side, provided it is
located on the premises and shall be removed upon the sale of the last lot.
      3.   One unlighted real estate sign advertising the sale or lease of a
farm or ranch ten (10) square feet per side, provided it is located on the
premises.
   D.   One unlighted construction sign announcing the construction of a
building or project, with sign area not to exceed twenty (20) square feet per
side, provided the sign shall be removed upon occupancy of the building or sale
of the land for which the sign was intended. Signs shall not be erected until a
building permit is approved.
   E.   Flags, either official or historical, of any state or nation. The pole
height shall not exceed ten feet (10') above the real roofline, and the flag
shall not exceed forty (40) square feet.
   F.   One owner identification or occupant identification sign, and one for
rent, warning or trespass sign in the Residential Zone which shall not exceed
two (2) square feet per side.
   G.   Warning signs in commercial and light industrial zones, such as "no
parking", and directional signs, such as "entrance", not to exceed two (2)
square feet per side.
   H.   Temporary signs including, but not limited to, portable A-frame
sidewalk signs, banners or pennants announcing daily or promotional information
for special sales for businesses for profit. Temporary signs shall be removed
immediately at the conclusion of the event and may be displayed on the outside
of the primary business building or in the on site window area or off site in
the ITD or City right-of-way/sidewalk area, provided an encroachment permit has
been approved for placement of signage in the right-of-way. Temporary business
signage depicting the name of the business may be permitted for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days unless approved by the Administrator for a longer
period, provided permanent signage order documents are provided where
installation has not been done due to signage components not available to be
installed. Temporary signage shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet at any
one time.
   I.   Temporary signs, banners, or pennants announcing community events and
conventions, which shall be removed immediately at the conclusion of the event.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
   J.   Murals. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   K.   Signs for charitable, service and other nonprofit organizations. Signs
shall not be more than four (4) square feet per side.
   L.   The Veteran's Memorial sign and the Coca Cola sign on the Odd Fellows
building on Main Street, which are hereby declared historical landmarks, and
any such other signs so declared by resolution of the Council to be such
landmarks.
   M.   All City signage. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-9: NONCONFORMING OR DAMAGED OR DETERIORATING SIGNS:
   A.   Lawful nonconforming signs shall not be replaced with nonconforming
signs.
   B.   Deteriorating or damaged signs shall be repaired or improved within
thirty (30) days of notification. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-10: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   No freestanding, projecting, or wall sign shall be designed,
constructed, or erected which extends above the primary roofline of the
building containing the business it advertises. In any case, no sign shall
exceed fifteen feet (15') from ground level to the signage area top unless it
is a wall sign. These signs may be mounted up to the real roofline or parapet
wall of the building.
   B.   No projecting or freestanding sign, canopy, or marquee shall extend
from a private property boundary over a public right-of-way more than four feet
(4') beyond the private property line. All projecting signs shall be set back a
minimum of eighteen inches (18") from the street curbing. Prior to extending
any sign beyond a property line, the applicant shall obtain and provide an
approved encroachment permit from applicable jurisdictions including, but not
limited to, ITD and the City. The bottom of any projecting sign may not be
lower than twelve feet (12') above any public right-of-way. ITD may approve a
canopy or marquee projecting sign with a minimum distance from the bottom of
the sign to the ground of eight feet (8'). No sign shall extend above a vehicle
passageway.
   C.   No lettering on any sign, including cutout letter signs, shall exceed
twenty four inches (24") in height, except the lettering on a sign located one
hundred fifty feet (150') or more from the public street or highway to which it
faces and shall not exceed thirty six inches (36") in height.
   D.   All supports for all signs or sign structures shall be placed in and
upon private property unless approved by the applicable owner and the Planning
and Zoning Administrator. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-11: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
Every sign shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good structural
condition at all times, including the repair or replacement of defective parts,
painting, cleaning, and other acts required for maintenance. If the sign is not
made to comply with adequate safety and maintenance standards, the Planning
Administrator and/or the building inspector shall require its removal in
accordance with section
10-22A-12 of this article. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-12: REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN SIGNS:
   A.   Abandoned Signs: Any sign that is located on property that is vacant
and unoccupied for a period of six (6) months or more; pertains to a time,
event, or purpose which no longer applies; or advertises products, services, or
facilities which have not been available to the public for a period of six (6)
months shall be deemed abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a business
temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership, management or seasonal
closure shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant six
(6) months or more. Abandoned signs shall be removed by the owner of the
premises. Signage depicting incorrect information such as the name of business,
hours of operation, phone numbers and addresses shall be removed immediately.
   B.   Dangerous Or Defective Signs: No person shall maintain or permit to be
maintained on any property owned by him any sign which is in a dangerous or
defective condition. Any such sign shall be removed or repaired by the owner of
the premises or the owner of the sign. Upon failure of the owner to remove or
repair a dangerous or defective sign, the building inspector and/or the
Planning and Zoning Administrator shall proceed as described in subsection C of
this section.
   C.   Removal Of Signs: The Planning and Zoning Administrator or building
inspector shall cause to be removed any sign that endangers the public safety,
such as signs that are abandoned or dangerous structurally, materially, or
electrically. The building inspector and/or the Planning and Zoning
Administrator shall send a notice by certified mail to the owner of the
property on which the sign is located specifying the violation involved. If the
sign is not removed or the violation not corrected within thirty (30) days from
the date of the mailing, the sign shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of this section. If any such person is unknown or cannot be found,
notice shall be mailed to the last known address and posted on the sign or
premises.
   D.   Appeals: The determination of the Planning and Zoning Administrator or
building inspector ordering removal or compliance may be appealed by filing
written notice with the Planning and Zoning Commission within ten (10) days
after receipt of notice.
   E.   Immediate Removal Of Dangerous Signs: In cases of imminent danger to
public safety, the Planning Administrator and/or building inspector may cause
immediate removal of a dangerous sign without notice.
   F.   Disposal Of Signs; Costs: Any sign removed by an agent of the City
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall become the property of the
City and may be disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate. The cost of
removal shall be considered a debt owed to the City by the sign owner or
property owner, and may be recovered in court action or result in a lien
against the property. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22A-13: COLORS AND MATERIALS FOR SIGNS IN THE HISTORICAL OVERLAY DISTRICT:
In the Historical Overlay Zone, per the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan, signage
should be encouraged to utilize the use of natural colors and indigenous
materials such as wood, rock, logs, pre- antiqued iron metals and brick. (Ord.
2015-02, 4-20-2015)
ARTICLE B. LIGHTING
SECTION:
10-22B-1: Title And Purpose
10-22B-2: Definitions
10-22B-3: General Standards
10-22B-4: Types Of Luminaires
10-22B-5: Placement And Height Of Luminaires
10-22B-6: Illuminance Levels And Types Of Lamps
10-22B-7: Procedures
10-22B-8: Violations
10-22B-9: Figures And Tables
10-22B-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the BELLEVUE OUTDOOR LIGHTING
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this article is to protect and promote the public
health, safety and welfare, the quality of life, and the ability to view the
night sky, by establishing regulations and a process for review of exterior
lighting. This article establishes standards for exterior lighting in order to
accomplish the following:
   A.   To provide safe roadways for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians, and
ensure that sufficient lighting can be provided where needed to promote safety
and security;
   B.   To protect against direct glare and excessive lighting;
   C.   To protect the nighttime use and enjoyment of property and curtail the
degradation of the nighttime visual environment, and thereby help preserve the
quality of life in the City;
   D.   To prevent light trespass in all areas of the City;
   E.   To promote energy efficient and cost effective lighting in all areas of
the City;
   F.   To allow for flexibility in the style of lighting fixtures;
   G.   To define practical and effective measures by which the obtrusive
aspects of outdoor light usage can be minimized, and provide lighting practices
that direct appropriate amounts of light where and when it is needed; and
   H.   To provide assistance to property owners with this article. (Ord. 2015-
02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
article shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in
common usage and to give this article its most reasonable application. When
used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AREA LIGHT: A luminaire equipped with a lamp that produces over one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) lumens. Area lights include, but are not limited to,
streetlights, parking lot lights and yard lights. (See section
10-22B-9, table 1 of this article for light output of various lamps.)
AVERAGE HORIZONTAL FOOT-CANDLE: The average level of illuminance for a given
situation (with snow cover if that is to be expected in the given situation),
measured at ground level, with the light meter placed parallel to the ground.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The City of Bellevue building inspector.
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
EIGHTY FIVE DEGREE CUTOFF TYPE OF LUMINAIRES: Luminaires that do not allow
light to escape above an eighty five degree (85°) angle, measured from a
vertical line from the center of the lamp extended to the ground (see section
10-22B-9, figure 2 of this article).
EXTERIOR LIGHTING: Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed, located
or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors. Luminaires that
are indoors that are intended to light something outside are considered
exterior lighting for the purpose of this article.
FLOODLIGHT: A lamp that produces up to one thousand eight hundred (1,800)
lumens and is designed to flood a well defined area with light. (See section
10-22B-9, table 1 of this article for light output of various lamps.)
FOOT-CANDLE (FC): The American unit used to measure the total amount of light
cast on a surface (illuminance). One foot-candle is equivalent to the
illuminance produced by a source of one candle at a distance of one foot (1').
For example, the full moon produces 0.01 foot-candle (foot-candles are measured
with a light meter). One foot-candle is approximately equal to ten (10) lux,
the British unit used to measure illuminance.
FULL CUTOFF LUMINAIRES: A luminaire designed and installed where no light is
emitted at or above a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the
luminaire. (See section
10-22B-9, figure 1 of this article.)
FULLY SHIELDED: The luminaire incorporates a solid barrier (the shield), which
permits no light to escape through the barrier. (See section
10-22B-9, figure 4 of this article.)
GLARE: Stray, unshielded light striking the eye that may result in:
   A.   Nuisance or annoyance glare such as light shining into a window;
   B.   Discomfort glare such as bright light causing a squinting of the eyes;
   C.   Disabling glare such as bright light reducing the ability of the eyes
to see into shadows; or
   D.   Reduction of visual performance.
HOLIDAY LIGHTING: Strings of individual lamps where the output per lamp is not
greater than fifteen (15) lumens.
IESNA: Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IES or IESNA). The
professional society of lighting engineers.
IESNA RECOMMENDED PRACTICES: The current publications of the IESNA setting
forth illuminance levels.
ILLUMINANCE: The amount of light falling on any point of a surface measured in
foot-candles or lux.
LAMP:
   A.   The generic term for an artificial light source, to be distinguished
from the whole assembly (see definition of luminaire). Commonly referred to as
"bulb".
   B.   The form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the eye to make
sight possible.
LIGHT POLLUTION: Any adverse effect of manmade light including, but not limited
to, discomfort to the eye or diminished vision due to glare, light trespass,
uplighting, the uncomfortable distraction of the eye, or any manmade light that
diminishes the ability to view the night sky.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light falling on the property of another or the public right-
of-way when it is not required to do so.
LIGHTING: Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light.
LIGHTING ADMINISTRATOR: The Bellevue Planning and Zoning Administrator-
Development Service Director who shall administer, interpret, and enforce this
article and make recommendations hereunder.
LUMEN: The unit used to quantify the amount of light energy produced by a lamp
at the lamp. Lumen output of most lamps is listed on the packaging. For
example, a sixty (60) watt incandescent lamp produces nine hundred fifty (950)
lumens while a fifty five (55) watt low pressure sodium lamp produces eight
thousand (8,000) lumens.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit, consisting of a lamp or lamps, together
with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the
lamps and to connect the lamps to the power. When used, the term includes
ballasts and photocells. Commonly referred to as "fixture".
MAINTAINED ILLUMINANCE: The condition that occurs after two hundred (200) hours
of lamp use prior to a point where luminaire cleaning is necessary.
Measurements are taken at ground level with the sensor parallel to the ground
for horizontal illuminance and measured at five feet (5') above the ground with
the sensor perpendicular to the ground for vertical illuminance.
NONESSENTIAL LIGHTING: Lighting that is not necessary for an intended purpose
after the purpose has been served. The term does not include any lighting used
for safety and/or public circulation purposes.
OPAQUE: The effect of a part or parts of a luminaire that provide(s) a barrier
above and, in some cases, around, the lamp, that does not allow any light to
pass through.
PARTIALLY SHIELDED: The luminaire incorporates a translucent barrier, the
"partial shield" around the lamp, that allows some light to pass though the
barrier while concealing the lamp from the viewer. (See section
10-22B-9, figure 3 of this article.)
PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR-DEVELOPMENT SERVICE DIRECTOR: The City of
Bellevue Planning and Zoning Administrator.
SKYGLOW: The overhead glow from light emitted sideways and upwards. Skyglow is
caused by the reflection and scattering of light by dust, water vapor and other
particles suspended in the atmosphere. Skyglow reduces one's ability to view
the night sky.
TEMPORARY LIGHTING: Lighting that is intended to be used for a special event
for seven (7) days or less.
TRANSLUCENT: The effect of a part or parts of a luminaire that provide(s) a
barrier around the lamp that allows some light to pass through the barrier in a
diffused manner such that the lamp cannot be clearly distinguished. (See
section
10-22B-9, figure 3 of this article.)
UNSHIELDED: The luminaire only incorporates clear glass, which permits all
light to escape. (See section
10-22B-9, figure 5 of this article.)
UPLIGHTING: Fully shielded lighting that is directed in such a manner as to
shine light rays above the horizontal plane.
WALL WASH: The reflectivity of artificial lighting from the exterior surface of
a building or structure. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   All exterior lighting, excluding street lighting and lighting
associated with law enforcement facilities and emergency response facilities,
shall be designed, located and lamped in order to prevent or minimize:
      1.   Overlighting.
      2.   Energy waste.
      3.   Glare.
      4.   Light trespass.
      5.   Skyglow.
      6.   Public nuisance.
   B.   All nonessential exterior commercial, recreational, and residential
lighting shall be turned off after business hours and/or when not in use.
Lights on a timer are encouraged. Sensor activated lights are encouraged to
replace existing lighting that is desired for security purposes. Residential
exterior lighting shall not create a public nuisance by light trespassing.
   C.   Canopy lights, such as service station lighting or covered entries,
shall be fully recessed or fully shielded so as to ensure that no light source
is visible from or causes glare on public rights-of-way or adjacent properties.
   D.   Area lights, excluding public street lighting shall be a minimum of
eighty five degree (85°) full cutoff type luminaires.
   E.   Idaho Power shall not install any luminaires after the effective date
hereof that lights the public right-of-way without first receiving approval for
any such application by the Lighting Administrator. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-4: TYPES OF LUMINAIRES:
No unshielded or clear glass luminaires shall be allowed. All exterior lighting
shall use full cutoff luminaires with the light source downcast and fully
shielded, with the following exceptions:
   A.   Luminaires that have a maximum output of one thousand (1,000) lumens
per fixture, regardless of number of lamps (equal to one 60-watt incandescent
lamp) may be partially shielded, provided the lamp is not visible and the
luminaire has an opaque top or is under a solid overhang. (See section
10-22B-9, figure 3 of this article.)
   B.   Floodlights with external shielding shall be angled; provided, that no
light is directly above a thirty degree (30°) angle measured from the vertical
line from the center of the light extended to the ground, and only if the
luminaire does not cause glare or light to shine on adjacent property or public
rights-of-way (see section
10-22B-9, figure 6 of this article). Photocells with timers that allow a
floodlight to go on at dusk and off by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. are
encouraged.
   C.   Residential holiday lighting is allowed from November 1 to March 15.
Flashing holiday lights on residential properties are discouraged. Holiday
lights shall be turned off by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   D.   Commercial holiday lighting is allowed from November 1 to March 15.
Commercial holiday lights shall be turned off by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. or
the close of business, whichever is later.
   E.   Sensor activated luminaires, provided:
      1.   They are located in such a manner as to prevent glare and lighting
onto properties of others or into a public right-of-way.
      2.   The luminaire is set to only go on when activated and to go off
within five (5) minutes after activation has ceased.
      3.   The luminaire shall not be triggered by activity off the subject
property.
   F.   All temporary emergency lighting needed by the Fire and Police
Departments or other emergency services.
   G.   Uplighting for flags, provided the flag is a United States of America
or State of Idaho official flag and the maximum lumen output is one thousand
three hundred (1,300) lumens. Flags may be taken down at sunset to avoid the
need for lighting. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
   H.   Uplighting for landscaping is prohibited. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015;
amd. 2018 Code)
   I.   Lighting of radio, communication and navigation towers, provided the
owner or occupant demonstrates that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
regulations can only be met through the use of lighting that does not comply
with this article.
   J.   Exterior neon lights are prohibited pursuant to this chapter unless
they meet the provisions as set forth in subsection 10-22A-4D3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-5: PLACEMENT AND HEIGHT OF LUMINAIRES:
   A.   Parking area luminaires shall be no taller than seventeen feet (17')
from the ground to their tallest point. Parking area lights are encouraged to
be greater in number, lower in height and lower in light level, as opposed to
fewer in number, higher in height and higher in light level.
   B.   Freestanding luminaires on private property in residential zones shall
be mounted at a height no greater than twelve feet (12') from ground level to
the top of the luminaire.
   C.   Streetlights used on arterial roads may exceed twenty feet (20') in
height, with the approval recommendation by the Common Council, and only with a
finding that exceeding twenty feet (20') is necessary to protect the safety of
the residents of the City.
   D.   Luminaires used for playing fields shall be exempt from the height
restriction, provided all other provisions of this section are met, and the
light is used only while the field is in use. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-6: ILLUMINANCE LEVELS AND TYPES OF LAMPS:
   A.   Illuminance levels for parking lots, sidewalks, and other walkways
affected by side mounted building lights and freestanding sidewalk lights (non-
streetlights) shall not exceed illuminance levels listed in the most current
IESNA Recommended Practices. The City recognizes that not every such area will
require lighting.
   B.   Parking lot and parking structure lighting shall not exceed an overall
average illumination of 1.5 foot-candles.
   C.   The use of flood lighting for exterior wall washing is prohibited for
residences, condominiums and apartments; the use of recessed eave lighting to
achieve wall washing is permitted. Suggested maximum average limits for wall
washing are:
      1.   Dark colored exterior surfaces: 1.0 foot-candle.
      2.   Light colored exterior surfaces: 0.5 foot-candle.
Illuminance measurements of indirect light creating wall wash shall be measured
with an illuminance meter four feet (4') from ground level, with the meter held
horizontally and touching the wall surface.
   D.   Streetlights shall be high pressure sodium, low pressure sodium or
metal halide, unless otherwise determined that another type is more efficient.
Streetlights along residential streets shall be limited to a seventy (70) watt
high pressure sodium (hps) light with a lumen output of six thousand four
hundred (6,400). Streetlights along nonresidential streets or at intersections
shall be limited to one hundred (100) watts hps, with a lumen output of nine
thousand five hundred (9,500); except, that lights at major intersections on
State highways shall be limited to two hundred fifty (250) watts hps. If a
light type other than high pressure sodium is permitted, then the equivalent
output shall be the limit for the other light type (see section
10-22B-9, table 1 of this article).
   E.   All existing and/or new exterior lighting, excluding street lighting
and lighting associated with law enforcement facilities and emergency response
facilities, shall not cause light trespass and shall protect adjacent
properties from glare and excessive lighting. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-7: PROCEDURES:
   A.   All applications for design review, conditional use permits,
subdivision approvals, applicable sign permits, or building permits shall
include lighting plans showing location, type, height, lumen output, and
illuminance levels in order to verify that lighting conforms to the provisions
of this article. The Lighting Administrator may waive the requirement for
illuminance level information only if the Lighting Administrator finds that the
illuminance levels conform to this article. For all other exterior lights which
must conform to the requirements of this article, an application shall be made
to the Lighting Administrator showing location, type, height, lumen output and
illuminance levels.
   B.   The Lighting Administrator shall review any new exterior lighting or
any existing exterior lighting on subject property that is part of an
application for design review, conditional use permit, subdivision approval,
applicable sign permits or building permit to determine whether the exterior
lighting complies with the standards of this article.
   C.   The Lighting Administrator shall convey in writing a recommendation
whether the exterior lighting complies with the standards of this article to
the Building Official, the City Planning and Zoning Commission, or the Mayor
and Common Council of the City, as the case may be, before any review or
hearing on a building permit, design review, conditional use permit,
subdivision application, or applicable sign permit.
   D.   For all other exterior lighting which must conform to the requirements
of this article, the Lighting Administrator shall issue a decision whether the
exterior lighting complies with the standards of this article. All such
decisions may be appealed pursuant to subsection 10-3-3A of this title, as
amended, to the City Planning and Zoning Commission within thirty (30) days of
the decision. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-8: VIOLATIONS:
If the Lighting Administrator finds that any provision of this article is being
violated, the Lighting Administrator shall give notice by hand delivery or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of such violation to the owner and/or
to the occupant of such premises, demanding that the violation be abated within
thirty (30) days of the date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing of the
notice. The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall be available to assist in
working with the violator to correct said violation. If the violation is not
abated within the thirty (30) day period, the Lighting Administrator may
institute actions and proceedings, either legal or equitable, to enjoin,
restrain or abate any violations of this article or bring a criminal complaint
against the violator. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
10-22B-9: FIGURES AND TABLES:
The figures and information sheets in this section shall be incorporated into
this article as guidelines for the public and the City for use in enforcing
this article. The City does not endorse or discriminate against any
manufacturer or company that may be shown, portrayed or mentioned by the
examples. Additional information is provided at the City Planning Department.
   FIGURE 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/87d90425055289042e71487af2ec8d24773e39fc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1157.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/87d90425055289042e71487af2ec8d24773e39fc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1159.gif]
 
   TABLE 1
   INITIAL RATED LIGHT OUTPUT OR VARIOUS LAMPS
(Information from Sylvania #PL-150, General Electric #9200 and Phillips #SG-100
large lamp catalogs)
Lamp Type Lamp Wattage Initial Lumen
Lamp Type                                         Lamp Wattage Initial Lumen
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)                25           235
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)                40           375
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)                60           890
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)                100          1,690
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)                150          2,850
Incandescent flood or spot (G.E.)                 75           765
Incandescent flood or spot (G.E.)                 120          1,500
Incandescent flood or spot (G.E.)                 150          2,000
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)              42           665
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)              52           885
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)              72           1,300
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)              300          6,000
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)              500          10,500
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)              1,000        21,000
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 volt 20           260
MR-16 type)
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 volt 42           630
MR-16 type)
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 volt 50           895
MR-16 type)
Quarts halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 volt 75           1,300
MR-16 type)
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                       7            400
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                       9            600
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                       13           900
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                       22           1,200
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                       28           1,600
Fluorescent lamp (G.E. cool white)                40           3,150
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)               18           1,800
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)               35           4,800
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)               55           8,000
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)               90           13,500
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)               135          22,500
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)               180          33,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)        35           2,250
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)        50           4,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)        70           6,400
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)        100          9,500
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)        150          16,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)        250          27,500
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)        400          50,000
 
   TABLE 2
   MOUNTING HEIGHT/LAMP OUTPUT RECOMMENDATIONS
Table 2 of this section lists the maximum lumen levels standards at various
heights above ground level. It provides specific examples listing the common
types of lighting sources, lumen levels, and permitted mounting heights.
Mounting Height (Feet) Max Lumens
Mounting Height (Feet) Max Lumens
6                         1,000
8                         600 to 1,600
10                        1,000 to 2,000
12                        1,600 to 2,400
16                        2,400 to 6,000
20                        4,000 to 8,000
24                        6,000 to 9,000
28                        8,000 to 12,000
32                        9,000 to 24,000
36                        12,000 to 28,000
40                        16,000 to 32,000
 
   TABLE 3
   MOUNTING HEIGHT RECOMMENDATIONS PER LAMP TYPE
   LOW PRESSURE SODIUM
Wattage 180W 135W 90W 55W 35W 18W
Wattage          180W   135W      90W    55W   35W       18W
Mounting heights >40'   30' - 32' 28'    24'   16' - 20' 10'
Initial lumens   33,000 22,500    13,500 8,000 4,800     1,800
Mean lumens      33,000 22,500    13,500 8,000 4,800     1,800
Lamp wattage     180    135       90     55    35        18
Circuit wattage  220    180       125    80    60        30
Initial lum/watt 150    125       108    100   80        60
Mean lum/watt    150    125       108    100   80        60
Annual kWh use   902    738       513    328   216       123
 
   HIGH PRESSURE SODIUM
Wattage 400W 250W 200W 150W 100W 70W 50W 35W
Wattage          400W   250W      200W   150W   100W  70W   50W   35W
Mounting heights >50'   32' - 36' 30'    28'    24'   20'   16'   12'
Initial lumens   50,000 28,500    22,000 16,000 9,500 6,300 4,000 2,250
Mean lumens      45,000 25,700    19,800 14,400 8,550 5,470 3,600 2,025
Lamp wattage     400    250       200    150    100   70    50    35
Circuit wattage  465    294       246    193    130   88    66    46
Initial lum/watt 108    97        89     83     73    72    61    49
Mean lum/watt    97     87        80     75     66    64    55    44
Annual kWh use   1,907  1,205     1,009  791    533   361   271   189
 
Wattage 1,000W 400W 250W 175W 150W 100W 70W 50W 32W
Wattage          1,000W  400W   250W   175W   150W   100W  70W   50W   32W
Mounting heights >60'    >36'   >30'   >28'   >24'   >20'  >16'  >12'  >10'
Initial lumens   110,000 36,000 20,500 16,600 13,000 9,000 5,500 3,500 2,500
Mean lumens      88,000  28,800 17,000 10,350 8,700  6,400 4,000 2,500 1,900
Lamp wattage     1,000   400    250    175    150    100   70    50    32
Circuit wattage  1,070   456    295    215    184    115   88    62    43
Initial lum/watt 103     79     69     77     71     78    63    56    58
Mean lum/watt    82      63     58     48     47     56    45    40    44
Annual kWh       4,387   1,870  1,210  882    754    472   361   254   176
 
(Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015)
ARTICLE C. FENCE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-22C-1: Fence Requirements
10-22C-2: Obstructing Vision Prohibited
10-22C-3: Maintenance And Repairs
10-22C-4: Height In Certain Districts
10-22C-5: Fences In Business And Light Industrial Districts
10-22C-1: FENCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fences in all zoning districts, including the replacement of existing
fences, shall be permitted by an application and fee.
   B.   All fences shall be constructed on the property owner’s property,
inside the boundary lines.
   C.   Property owners in all zoning districts shall be required to identify
property pins with either a survey or marking their locations. (Ord. 2021-06,
4-26-2021)
10-22C-2: OBSTRUCTING VISION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Sight obscuring fences, hedges, walls, lattice work, or screens shall
not be constructed in such a manner that vision necessary for safe operation of
motor vehicles, bicycles, or pedestrians is obstructed.
   B.   Fences, hedges, etc., placed on the property line of lots located at
the intersection of two (2) streets or a street and an alley shall not exceed a
height of three and one-half feet (31/2') beginning at the corner point of the
private property boundary and extending a distance of thirty feet (30') down
the applicable rear, front or side lot lines. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015; amd.
Ord. 2021-06, 4-26-2021)
10-22C-3: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
All fences shall be maintained in good condition and repair. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-
20-2015; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 4-26-2021)
10-22C-4: HEIGHT IN CERTAIN DISTRICTS:
Fences in the General Residential and Transitional Zoning Districts shall not
exceed four feet (4') in height for the front of the property and shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height for side and rear of the property unless a
conditional use permit has first been obtained therefor. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 4-26-2021)
10-22C-5: FENCES IN BUSINESS AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
A sight obscuring fence shall be required by the commission for any use in the
Business or Light Industrial District which abuts any residentially owned lot.
Said fence shall be stained or painted a single solid color, shall not be used
for advertising, and shall be maintained in good repair. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-
2015; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 4-26-2021)
CHAPTER 23
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-23-1: Short Title
10-23-2: Intent And Purpose
10-23-3: Application Of Provisions
10-23-4: Definitions
10-23-5: Right-Of-Way Use Lease Requirements
10-23-6: Permit Requirements
10-23-7: Regulations In Specific Zoning Districts
10-23-8: Location And Facility Type Standards And Priorities
10-23-9: Standards And Criteria Of Evaluation
10-23-10: Safety Standards
10-23-11: Maintenance Requirements
10-23-12: Modification Of Wireless Communication Facilities
10-23-13: Abandonment Or Discontinuation Of Use
10-23-14: Recovery Of City Costs And Special Review Fees
10-23-15: Exempt Facilities
10-23-16: Appeals
10-23-17: Enforcement And Penalties
10-23-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter, including all subsequent amendments hereto and codifications
hereof, may be referred to as the BELLEVUE WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
ORDINANCE or as the BELLEVUE WCF ORDINANCE for purposes of reference in any
ordinance, resolution or public notice of the City. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The unique small town character, landscapes, scenic vistas, and
aesthetic values of the City are among its most valuable assets. Preserving and
promoting those assets is, in the long range, to protect and preserve the
social and economic well-being of the City and its inhabitants and the
community values as expressed in the Comprehensive Plan and land use ordinances
of the City. Protecting these assets and values requires sensitive placement
and design of wireless communication facilities ("WCFs"), including, but not
limited to, personal wireless communication facilities so that such facilities
remain in scale and harmony with and do not adversely impact the existing
unique character of the City.
   B.   This chapter is intended to provide reasonable standards and procedures
for the development, placement, construction and modification of WCFs that will
serve the inhabitants, traveling public, service providers, and others within
the City in order to:
      1.   Encourage location, construction, operation, maintenance and
modification of appropriate WCFs within the City and the provisions of WCF
service to the inhabitants of and traveling public in the City.
      2.   Preserve the small town character, viability and property values of
areas which are in close proximity to WCFs by minimizing the adverse impacts
thereof and by protecting the public safety with regard to such facilities
through careful placement, design, construction, modification and screening
thereof.
      3.   Provide the development, placement, construction and modification of
WCFs compatible in appearance with the allowed uses of the underlying zoning
district in which such facilities are placed.
      4.   Facilitate the City's permitting process to encourage fair and
meaningful competition and extend to all people in all areas of the City
wireless communication services at reasonable costs to promote the public
welfare.
      5.   Encourage WCFs that have the least impact on and the greatest
compatibility with the character of the City, surrounding land uses and the
general public health, safety and welfare thereof.
      6.   Encourage joint use, clustering and concealment of antenna sites,
when and where appropriate.
      7.   Preserve the aesthetic values and the small town character of the
City, the quality of life enjoyed by inhabitants and visitors alike, and
preserve and promote the local tourist industry which is dependent thereon.
      8.   Protect the health, safety and welfare of persons living or working
in the area surrounding such WCFs from possible adverse impacts (within the
confines of the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996) relating to the
placement, construction or modification of such facilities. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-
14-2001)
10-23-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The placement, use or modification of any WCF within the City is subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABOVE GROUND LEVEL (AGL): The actual height of the WCF from the ground to
highest part of the mount or antenna or support structure, whichever is higher.
ACOUSTICAL ENGINEER: A professional engineer with demonstrated education,
accreditation and experience to perform and certify noise measurements.
ANTENNA: Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio or television
communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves
including equipment attached to a tower or building for the purpose of
providing personal wireless services. Antennas include the following types:
   A.   Omni-Directional (Or Whip) Antenna: Receives and transmits signals in a
three hundred sixty degree (360°) pattern, and is up to fifteen feet (15') in
height and up to four inches (4") in diameter.
   B.   Directional (Or Panel) Antenna: Receives and transmits signals in a
directional pattern typically encompassing an arc of one hundred twenty degrees
(120°).
   C.   Parabolic (Or Dish) Antenna: A bowl shaped device that receives and
transmits signals in a specific directional pattern.
   D.   Ancillary Antenna: An antenna that is less than twelve inches (12") in
its largest dimension and that is not directly used to provide personal
wireless communication services. An example would be a global positioning
satellite antenna (GPS).
   E.   Other: All other similar transmitting or receiving equipment.
APPLICANT: The person or entity that submits an application under this chapter
for a WCF permit and shall include both the owner of the real property upon
which the WCF is proposed for location and the owner of the proposed WCF.
BELLEVUE: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
BUILDING: Any permanent structure built for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind, which:
   A.   Is permanently affixed to the land; and
   B.   Has one or more floors and a roof.
CAMOUFLAGE: A way of painting, texturing or mounting a WCF to reduce the
visibility of the WCF by having it blend into and appear as part of a building
or other surroundings or background.
CARRIER: A company that provides wireless services.
CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: The duly appointed City Clerk of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
CITY STREET SYSTEM: The streets and alleys within the City highway system as
defined in Idaho Code section 40-104(C)(1).
CO-LOCATION: The use of a single support system by more than one carrier
(vertical co-location) and/or several support systems on an existing building
or support structure by more than one carrier.
COMMON COUNCIL: The Common Council of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
CONCEAL: To enclose a WCF within a building or part thereof resulting in the
WCF being hidden from view from surrounding parcels of real property and public
streets at ground level.
DISGUISE: To design a WCF to appear to be something other than a WCF.
EIA: The Electronic Industries Association.
EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURE: A small enclosed structure, shelter, cabinet, box or vault
within which are housed batteries and electrical and other equipment for a WCF.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
FACADE ATTACHED ANTENNA: Any antenna directly attached or affixed to the
elevation of a building.
FREESTANDING TOWER: A tower, except street poles and independent WCF alley
poles, not physically attached to a building or structure. The tower is
attached to the ground by a foundation.
FULLY AUTOMATED WCF: No on site personnel required for the daily operation of
the WCF.
GOVERNMENTAL EMERGENCY SERVICES WCF: A WCF owned and operated by a governmental
entity to provide noncommercial emergency services for police, fire, ambulance
and/or other emergency governmental communications.
GUY WIRE: Diagonal cables utilized to tie towers to the ground or other
surfaces.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: A substance (whether solid, liquid or gas) defined, listed
or otherwise classified as a pollutant, hazardous waste, hazardous substance,
hazardous material, or words of similar meaning or regulatory effect in any
environmental law (which means any present or future Federal, State or local
law, rule or regulation relating to the protection of human health and/or the
environment or to any hazardous substance, including, but not limited to, the
following Federal laws: the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation
and Recovery Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Water
Pollution Control Act, and the National Environmental Policy Act).
HEIGHT: The height of a WCF from the ground (at the grade existing prior to any
excavation or fill with regard to said facility) to the highest part of the
facility or of any antenna, mount, support structure, equipment or appurtenance
placed thereon or attached thereto.
INDEPENDENT WCF ALLEY POLE (IWCFAP): A pole of wood or steel located within the
right-of-way of an alley running through Block 41, 36, 35, O, C, D, E, H, S, T,
2, 25 or 98, Bellevue Townsite, Bellevue, Idaho, and constructed in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. Such an IWCFAP is located within the
City street system and is not within the definition of "street pole" in this
section.
LATTICE TOWER: A support structure that consists of a network of crossed metal
braces, forming a tower that is usually triangular or square in cross section.
LICENSED CARRIER: A company authorized by the FCC to construct and operate
commercial mobile radio services systems.
MODIFICATION: Any change in or addition to a WCF or any component thereof. All
modifications require a permit issued by the City pursuant to this chapter.
MONOPOLE: The shape of mount that is self-supporting with a single shaft of
wood, steel, concrete or other material and antenna(s) thereon or therein.
NONAUTOMATED: A WCF with on site personnel.
NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE: A building or structure not constructed or used for
residential purposes.
PERSON: Any person, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other
entity.
PERSONAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (PWCF): A facility for the provision
of personal wireless services, as defined by section 704 of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, including, but not limited to, antenna, support
structure, transmission cables, power cables, cable trays, equipment enclosure,
equipment, and components thereof and improvements with regard thereto.
Personal wireless services facilities are not public utility and public service
facilities or utilities and are not included within such definitions thereof
contained in City ordinances.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: Any personal wireless service defined in the
Federal Telecommunications Act which includes FCC licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services, including, without limitation, cellular, personal
communications services, specialized mobile radio, enhanced specialized mobile
radio, paging as well as unlicensed wire services and common carrier wireless
exchange access services and functionally equivalent services. "Personal
wireless services" are not public utility or public service facilities or
utilities and are not included within the definitions thereof contained in City
ordinances.
PHOTOSIMULATION: Computer generated photographs or renderings showing the
existing condition of the subject property and improvements with the proposed
WCF and related improvements superimposed thereon at scale.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Means and includes all public streets, alleys and utility
easements now and hereafter owned by Bellevue or other public entity.
ROOF MOUNTED WCF: A WCF antenna mounted on the top of the roof of a building.
SECURITY BARRIER: A wall, fence or other structure that completely seals an
area from unauthorized entry or trespass.
SEPARATION: The distance between one carrier's antenna array and another
carrier's antenna array.
SERVICE AREA: Area within which a wireless communication facility is able to
transmit clear signals, generally circular in form.
SITE: The precise portion of the parcel of real property (subject property)
upon which the WCF is located or proposed to be located.
STREET POLE: A streetlight, traffic control signal, telephone, electric or
cable television pole located in a developed public street or alley right-of-
way within the City street system or on other City owned property. A street
pole is not included within the definition of independent WCF alley pole in
this section.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed which requires permanent or indefinite location
or attachment on the ground, not including fences.
SUBJECT PROPERTY: The specific parcel of real property upon which a WCF is
located or proposed to be located.
SUPPORT STRUCTURE: The structure to which an antenna and other necessary
associated hardware is attached. Support structures include, but are not
limited to, the following:
   A.   Independent WCF alley pole.
   B.   Building.
   C.   Street pole.
   D.   Tower.
TOWER: A mast, pole, monopole, or other structure, except independent WCF alley
pole and street pole, designed and primarily used to support antennas and/or
other WCF equipment.
UNLICENSED WIRELESS SERVICES: Commercial mobile services that can operate on
public domain frequencies and therefore need no FCC license for their sites or
facilities.
WHIP ANTENNA: See definition of antenna: omni-directional antenna.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF): A facility that transmits and/or
receives electromagnetic signals, including antennas, microwave dishes,
parabolic antennas, directional antennas and other types of equipment for the
transmission or reception of such signals, towers or similar structures
supporting the equipment, transmission cables, power cables, cable trays,
equipment buildings, shelters, cabinets, parking area, and other accessory
development. WCFs include, but are not limited to, personal wireless services
and facilities as defined by section 704 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
and broadcast service facilities. Wireless services facilities are not public
utilities or utilities nor included within such definitions thereof contained
in City ordinances. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-5: RIGHT-OF-WAY USE LEASE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intent And Purpose: This section is adopted to accompany this chapter
and to further the intent, purpose and provisions of this chapter. This section
is to be read and construed in conjunction with this chapter.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CITY: The City of Bellevue, Idaho.
   CITY STREET SYSTEM: The streets and alleys within the City highway system as
defined in Idaho Code section 40-104(C)(1).
   PERSON: Any person, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other
entity.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY (WCF): A facility that transmits and/or
receives electromagnetic signals, including antennas, microwave dishes,
parabolic antennas, directional antennas and other types of equipment for the
transmission or reception of such signals, towers or similar structures
supporting the equipment, transmission cables, power cables, cable trays,
equipment buildings, shelters, cabinets, parking area, and other accessory
development. WCFs include, but are not limited to, personal wireless services
and facilities as defined by section 704 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
and broadcast service facilities.
   C.   Lease Required; Authority To Grant: No person may construct, place or
maintain a wireless communication facility ("WCF") or any portion thereof on,
upon, underneath or otherwise within any public street or alley right-of-way
within City street system without first having obtained a right-of-way use
lease from the City therefor. The granting of any such lease shall remain in
the sole discretion of the Common Council of the City ("Common Council") upon
such terms and conditions as it deems in the best interests of the City and the
inhabitants thereof. The granting of a lease under this section shall not be
deemed to set any precedent or establish any right for the granting of any
other or subsequent lease by the City.
   D.   Required Findings; Term Of Lease: Any lease entered into for use of a
portion of a public street or alley right-of-way (jointly referred to as
"public right-of-way") for a wireless communication facility under this section
shall require findings by the Common Council that: 1) the property subject to
said lease is not presently needed for public transportation purposes; 2) the
proposed use will not substantially impair passage through the public right-of-
way in question; and 3) it is in the best interests of the City and its
inhabitants to enter into said lease. Granting of any such lease shall not be
deemed a finding or determination by the City that said public right-of-way or
any portion thereof is abandoned for public transportation purposes or that
said right-of-way or the portion subject to such lease will not be necessary
for public transportation in the future. Said lease and the term thereof shall
remain subordinate and subject to use for public transportation purposes, and
any such lease shall be subject to termination by the Common Council upon a
finding by the Council, in its sole discretion, that the property subject
thereto needs to be put to use for public transportation purposes. (Ord. 2001-
11, 6-14-2001)
10-23-6: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Ineligibility:
      1.   No person shall commence construction of or operate a WCF within the
Municipal boundaries of the City without having obtained a valid WCF permit
under this section. It shall be unlawful for any person within the City without
a valid WCF permit to: a) commence construction of a WCF; or b) operate a WCF;
or c) modify, alter, add to or change a WCF.
      2.   No WCF permit shall be issued to any applicant when, in the
application review process or otherwise, the City finds that the applicant has
an existing WCF within the City that is in violation of this chapter.
      3.   No building permit shall be issued for a WCF or any component
thereof unless and until a valid WCF permit has been duly issued therefor by
the City.
   B.   Permit Granting Authority:
      1.   The Bellevue Planning and Zoning Administrator ("Administrator")
shall review and be the permit granting authority for WCF permits for WCFs
located on IWCFAPs and concealed roof mounted WCFs within the Business Zoning
District and the Light Industrial Zoning District. The Administrator may attach
reasonable conditions to the approval of such applications including, but not
limited to, those which will minimize adverse impacts on adjacent properties or
public ways and/or assure the WCF is constructed and maintained in accordance
with this chapter. At the time of filing a WCF application, the applicant may
request in writing review and approval of said application by the Bellevue
Planning and Zoning Commission ("commission") rather than by administrative
review. An applicant who does not so elect review by the commission is deemed
to have waived any and all objections to administrative review and shall be
limited to the appeal provisions set forth in this chapter.
      2.   Design review applications and/or conditional use permit
applications for WCFs shall be processed at the same time as WCF permit
applications in accordance with the procedures and provisions set forth in this
chapter.
      3.   Prior to issuance of any WCF permit for a WCF on an IWCFAP or other
structure within a public right-of-way within the City street system, the
applicant shall obtain a right-of-way use lease or other agreement with the
Common Council therefor.
   C.   Application Filing Requirements: An application for a WCF permit must
be determined to be complete by the Administrator prior to processing. The City
shall deem an application complete when the application contains the
information described below. The following shall be included with an
application for a WCF permit:
      1.   The application form shall include, at a minimum:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and any co-
applicants as well as any agents for the applicant and co- applicants. The
applicant or co-applicant shall be a licensed carrier, except for an
application solely filed by and for a WCF by an unlicensed carrier.
         b.   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner(s).
         c.   Original signatures of the applicant and all co-applicants
applying for a WCF permit. If the applicant or co-applicant will be represented
by an agent, the original signature authorizing the agent to represent the
applicant and/or co-applicant.
         d.   A complete legal description of the subject property. (Ord. 2001-
09, 6-14-2001)
         e.   A basic WCF permit application fee is hereby established by
resolution. Said fee shall be paid at the time of the filing of said
application and shall be in addition to such other fees and charges as provided
in this chapter and other applicable ordinances. The Common Council may
hereafter amend said fee by resolution. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001; amd. 2018
Code)
         f.   Map showing the subject property and all properties, roads and
alleys within one thousand feet (1,000').
         g.   List of property owners within three hundred feet (300')
according to records maintained by the Office of the Blaine County Assessor,
Hailey, Idaho.
      2.   A site plan drawn to scale of not less than one inch equals twenty
feet (1" = 20'), specifying the following:
         a.   Location of the subject property, siting of the WCF on the
building located thereon, together with the precise type, design, components
and height of the proposed WCF, antennas, equipment enclosure, security
barrier, transmission cable locations and other components of the WCF with
setbacks and dimensions.
         b.   On site structures, land uses and zoning.
         c.   Circulation, including adjacent roadways, ingress and egress from
such roadways, parking and pedestrian circulation and access.
         d.   Property lines of the subject property with dimensions, adjacent
land uses, structures and zoning.
         e.   Information demonstrating compliance with the standards, criteria
and requirements of this chapter.
         f.   North arrow, scale and legend.
      3.   Siting elevations or views at grade from north, south, east and west
from adjacent properties at least fifty feet (50') from the proposed WCF and
from all existing roadways, public and private, from which the proposed WCF
would be visible. Elevations shall be at either one-fourth inch equals one foot
(1/4" = 1') or one-eighth inch equals one foot (1/8" = 1') scale and showing
antennas, mounts, security barrier, equipment enclosure and other improvements
or appurtenances with dimensions and total height of the WCF. Also, photo
simulations at scale showing the location, height and dimensions of the WCF,
support structure, equipment enclosure and other components shall be submitted.
      4.   With regard to a WCF permit application for an IWCFAP or for co-
location for a concealed roof mounted WCF within an existing concealed roof
mounted WCF facility, the Administrator (upon a finding that such information
is redundant with that provided in a prior application or not reasonably
applicable to the WCF application) may waive any the requirements set forth in
subsection C2 through C6, C9 through C12, C14, C15, or C17 through C21 of this
section.
      5.   Elevations of proposed aboveground equipment enclosures showing all
dimensions, materials, colors and proposed landscaping.
      6.   A map indicating the service area of the facility.
      7.   A map indicating locations and service areas of other WCF sites
operated by the applicant and sites of other provider facilities within the
City and within one mile of the City's corporate limits.
      8.   Four (4) copies of all plans and one (1) eleven inch by seventeen
inch (11" x 17") paper reduction of each plan.
      9.   Equipment brochures for the proposed WCF such as manufacturer's
specifications or trade journal reprints. These shall be provided for the
antennas, mounts, equipment enclosures, cables, as well as cable runs, and
security barrier, if any.
      10.   Written documentation demonstrating a good faith effort to locate
the WCF in accordance with the priorities of section
10-23-8 of this chapter.
      11.   A statement of the technical reasons for the design and
configuration of the WCF.
      12.   For concealed roof mounted WCFs, a signed and notarized statement
by the applicant that:
         a.   The proposed concealed roof mounted site will accommodate co-
location of additional antennas, and the property owner will enter into leases
with other providers within such concealed site.
         b.   Certification that the antenna usage shall not interfere with
other adjacent or neighboring transmission or reception functions.
         c.   The licensed carrier and property owner of the subject property
each independently agrees to remove the WCF within ninety (90) days after use
of the site is discontinued, abandoned or the permit terminated or revoked.
         d.   Compliance with all EIA standards and applicable Federal and
State laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, FAA and FCC
regulations.
      13.   For concealed roof mounted WCFs, a lease agreement with the
landholder that:
         a.   Allows the landowner to enter into leases with other providers.
         b.   Specifies that if the provider fails to remove the WCF and
equipment within ninety (90) days of its use being discontinued or abandoned or
the permit terminated or revoked, the landowner shall remove same within thirty
(30) days.
         c.   Provides the lease is binding on the heirs, successors and
assigns of the parties.
         d.   Provides that the above lease terms cannot be amended, modified
or otherwise canceled or terminated without the prior written consent of the
City.
      14.   The applicant shall provide the following:
         a.   Copy of Form 600 Application filed with the FCC;
         b.   FCC license (Radio Authorization Form);
         c.   AGL to the radiation center and to the top of the highest
projection on the WCF.
      15.   A completed right-of-way use lease agreement with the City if the
WCF or any portion thereof is to be located within a public right-of-way.
      16.   A list of all hazardous substances, chemicals, petroleum products,
batteries, and similar items or substances which will be used or stored on the
WCF site.
      17.   A list of all types of materials used in the construction of and
which will be visible on the exterior of the WCF facility, together with the
finishes and colors thereof upon completion.
      18.   Certification that the proposed WCF complies with all applicable
FCC guidelines, and an RFR report (radio frequency radiation) for the proposed
WCF prepared by a qualified engineer.
      19.   For any site requiring an environmental assessment ("EA") under
NEPA pursuant to FCC regulations, a copy of the EA.
      20.   A written statement from the FAA of any required lighting of the
proposed WCF and all available lighting and/or painting alternatives which will
also meet that requirement. The City shall have the ability to condition permit
approval on the least intrusive lighting and/or painting alternative if there
is no other alternative location, site or design which will not require such
lighting. If lighting is required, no strobe or flashing lights or white lights
shall be permitted (unless no other alternative can meet FAA requirements) and
only solid red lights will be permitted.
      21.   Two (2) alternative proposals for the WCF facility in terms of
location, siting, height, and/or design, each of which complies with the
provisions of this chapter. Such alternatives shall be substantively different
from the primary proposal. If the applicant does not provide the alternatives
or the City finds other alternatives may exist that more fully comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the City may retain a private expert under section
10-23-14 of this chapter to develop such alternative proposals. The City shall
not further process the WCF permit application, and the time frame for
processing the application shall toll until thirty (30) days after the expert's
report is received by the City.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon approval, the City shall issue the applicant a
WCF permit in written form stating the exact WCF approved and the conditions,
if any, of said permit.
   E.   Term Of Permit: Each WCF permit shall be for a term of five (5) years.
A WCF permit shall expire by its own terms on the fifth anniversary date of the
date of issuance.
   F.   Annual Report A Condition Of Permit: As a condition of each WCF permit,
the applicant shall file with the City on each anniversary date of the issuance
of the permit an annual report containing the following information:
      1.   Name of permittee, landowner and each carrier located on the site
including the FCC permit number, the Bellevue WCF permit number, and an
emergency (24 hours/7 days a week) telephone number for each.
      2.   Any co-location added to the site or removed from the site within
the preceding year.
      3.   Any modifications to the site or any component thereof in the
preceding year.
      4.   Updated list of hazardous substances as set forth in subsection C16
of this section, together with a plan of the site showing the exact location of
and access in case of emergency to each such substance.
      5.   Date of the last physical inspection of the site by the permittee
and by each carrier on the site.
      6.   The name and telephone number of the contact person for required
maintenance of the site.
      7.   Failure to timely file an annual report shall be grounds for
revocation of the WCF permit.
   G.   Revocation Of Permit; Notice And Hearing:
      1.   Grounds For Revocation: A permit issued pursuant to this chapter may
be revoked for any of the following reasons:
         a.   Construction, and/or maintenance, and/or operation of a WCF at an
unauthorized location or of unauthorized equipment;
         b.   Construction, operation or modification of a WCF in violation of
any of provision of this chapter, and/or any condition attached to the WCF
permit or other permit regarding the WCF, or of any provision of the Building
Code or any other applicable ordinance of the City or State or Federal law;
         c.   Misrepresentation by or on behalf of an applicant, permittee or
carrier in any application or written or oral statement upon which the City
substantially relies in making the decision to grant, review or amend any
permit pursuant to this chapter;
         d.   Abandonment of the WCF as set forth in this chapter; or
         e.   Failure to promptly cure a violation of the terms or conditions
of the permit.
      2.   Notice Of Violation Or Noncompliance: In the event the City believes
that grounds exist for revocation of a permit, the permittee shall be given
written notice, by certified mail, of the apparent violation or noncompliance,
providing a short and concise statement of the nature and general facts of the
violation or noncompliance, and providing the permittee a reasonable period of
time, not exceeding thirty (30) calendar days, to furnish evidence that
corrective action has remedied the violation or noncompliance and/or that
rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance.
      3.   Hearing:
         a.   In the event that a permittee fails to provide evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the City as provided in subsection G2 of this
section, the City shall refer the apparent violation or noncompliance to the
commission.
         b.   The commission shall provide the permittee notice and reasonable
opportunity to be heard concerning the matter, and a public hearing shall be
conducted.
         c.   Within thirty (30) calendar days of the completion of the
hearing, the commission shall issue a written decision revoking the WCF permit
or imposing such lesser sanctions as it may be deemed appropriate under the
circumstances.
         d.   In making its decision, the commission shall apply the following
factors:
            (1)   Whether the misconduct was egregious;
            (2)   Whether substantial harm resulted;
            (3)   Whether the violation was intentional;
            (4)   Whether there is a history of prior violations of the same or
other requirements;
            (5)   Whether there is a history of overall compliance;
            (6)   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or
cured; and
            (7)   Other factors determined relevant by the City based upon the
specific facts of the case. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-7: REGULATIONS IN SPECIFIC ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Business District:
      1.   A WCF attached to an independent WCF alley pole ("IWCFAP") within
the alley right-of-way within Blocks 41, 36, 35, O, C, D, E, H, S, T, Z, 2, and
25, Bellevue Townsite, Bellevue, Idaho, is a permitted use in the Business
Zoning District upon issuance of a WCF permit in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   A concealed roof mounted WCF is a permitted use in the Business
Zoning District upon issuance of a WCF permit in accordance with this chapter
and design review approval in accordance with this title.
      3.   A governmental emergency service WCF is a conditional use within the
Business Zoning District.
      4.   All other WCFs are prohibited in the Business Zoning District.
   B.   Light Industrial District:
      1.   A WCF attached to an independent WCF alley pole ("IWCFAP") located
in the alley right-of-way within Block 98, Bellevue Townsite, Bellevue, Idaho,
is a permitted use in the Light Industrial Zoning District.
      2.   A concealed roof mounted WCF is a permitted use in the Light
Industrial Zoning District upon issuance of a WCF permit in accordance with
this chapter and design review approval in accordance with this title.
      3.   Governmental emergency service WCFs are a conditional use within the
Light Industrial District.
      4.   All other WCFs are not a permitted use in the Light Industrial
Zoning District.
   C.   General Residential District: WCFs are not permitted in the General
Residential Zoning District, except a governmental emergency service WCF is a
conditional use therein.
   D.   Transitional District: WCFs are not permitted in the Transitional
Zoning District, except a governmental emergency service WCF is a conditional
use therein.
   E.   Future Districts: In any zoning district hereafter duly created, WCFs
shall not be a permitted or a conditional use unless the ordinance establishing
such zoning district expressly provides for any such use. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-
2001)
10-23-8: LOCATION AND FACILITY TYPE STANDARDS AND PRIORITIES:
   A.   Location And Facility Type Selection Criteria: Subject to the
provisions of section
10-23-7 of this chapter, WCF permit applications shall be reviewed and approved
in the following priority order:
      1.   On an independent WCF alley pole ("IWCFAP").
      2.   If no location set forth above is possible, then a concealed roof
mounted WCF on City owned building is permissible.
      3.   If no location set forth above is possible, then a concealed roof
mounted WCF on another building is permissible.
      4.   If no location set forth above is possible, a freestanding facility
incorporated into or designed to look like streetlights, traffic signals,
street furniture or similar disguise with a street or alley right-of-way which
is part of the City street system is permissible.
      5.   If no location set forth above is possible, location on independent
poles in street rights-of-way within the City street system is permissible.
      6.   If no location set forth above is possible, location on street poles
in street rights-of-way within the City street system is permissible.
   B.   Independent WCF Alley Poles: It is hereby found by the Common Council
that location of WCFs on independent WCF alley poles is the preferred siting
alternative in the City. This is because such location is the least visually
intrusive installation alternative as the WCF is located off the Main Street
visual corridor, and it provides the City with the greatest degree of control
over the placement, construction and maintenance of WCFs. Consistent therewith,
in the Business Zoning District and the Light Industrial Zoning District,
applications for a WCF permit for an IWCFAP shall require only administrative
review as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   Concealed Roof Mounted WCF: If, under the provisions of this chapter, a
WCF cannot be located on an IWCFAP, then it is to be a concealed roof mounted
WCF. Concealed roof mounted WCFs are found by the City to be the next least
visually obtrusive type of facility because the equipment is substantially
concealed from view at ground level. Such roof mounted WCFs may be concealed in
newly constructed buildings or additions to existing buildings that are
designed to be compatible and harmonious with the surrounding land uses, such
as in steeples, clock towers, cupolas, and other architectural features or by
shielding WCFs from view. Concealed roof mounted locations shall be designed
and constructed to camouflage back haul dishes to look like an integral part of
the structure. Furthermore, co-location of concealed roof mounted WCFs is
encouraged because the construction of such sites will minimize the number of
such WCF sites within the City and provide for more effective review and
monitoring thereof.
   D.   Minimize Adverse Impacts: In order to minimize the adverse impacts of
WCFs and to promote the purposes of this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter may result in an applicant or licensed carrier having to install more,
smaller WCFs rather than fewer, larger WCFs. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-9: STANDARDS AND CRITERIA OF EVALUATION:
The applicant has the burden of proving compliance with each of the following
standards and criteria of evaluation. The Administrator or commission shall
review the application and determine if there is adequate and substantial
evidence in the record to make a positive finding on each standard and
criteria.
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   Height: No WCF shall exceed the maximum permissible height of a
building in the zoning district in which said WCF is located.
      2.   Setbacks: All WCFs, except IWCFAPs and street poles, shall comply
with the building setback provisions of the zoning district in which the WCF is
located.
      3.   Lighting: Facility lighting shall be designed so as to meet, but not
exceed, the minimum requirements for security, safety and FAA regulations.
Lighting of WCFs shall be prohibited unless required by the FAA and no other
alternative is available. In all instances, the lighting shall be designed so
as to avoid glare and minimize illumination on and visibility from adjacent
properties and rights-of-way. No strobe or flashing light or white light shall
be permitted unless no other lighting can meet FAA regulations and the
applicant provides written confirmation from the FAA that the specific WCF
under review cannot meet FAA regulations by the use of any other alternative
other than such lighting.
      4.   Signs: Signs shall be limited to those needed to identify the
emergency telephone numbers, public safety warnings, and other required
information. The sign shall, at a minimum, set forth the name of the permittee,
landowner and all carriers located on the site including the FCC permit number,
the City WCF permit number, and an emergency (24 hours/7 days a week) telephone
number for each. Each sign shall comply with the requirements of the City's
general sign regulations unless more stringent dimensions or design
requirements are set by the Administrator or commission.
      5.   Access: In addition to ingress and egress requirements of the
International Building Code and the International Fire Code, no WCF or
equipment shall be located in a required parking space, traffic lane or
vehicle/pedestrian circulation area. The WCF shall be secured from access by
the general public, but access for emergency services shall be ensured.
      6.   Environmental Standards: No hazardous substance shall be discharged
on the site of any WCF. If any hazardous substance is to be used or stored on
site, there shall be provisions for full containment of such materials as
provided by the Fire Code, Building Code and other applicable Federal, State
and local laws, rules and regulations. An enclosed containment area shall be
provided with a sealed floor, designed to contain at least one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the volume of the hazardous substance stored or used on site.
The use and storage of hazardous substances shall be in full compliance with
all Federal, State and local laws, rules and regulations.
      7.   Noise: Aboveground equipment for WCFs shall not generate noise in
excess of fifty (50) decibels (dB) at the property line of the subject property
as measured by a qualified acoustical engineer.
      8.   Guy Wire Restrictions: No guy wire or other support wires shall be
used in connection with any WCF antenna, antenna array or support structure
except when used to anchor the antenna or antenna array to an existing building
to which such antenna or antenna array is attached.
   B.   Independent WCF Alley Poles ("IWCFAPs"): In addition to all other
requirements of this chapter, an IWCFAP shall comply with the following:
      1.   The WCF shall not extend above the top of the pole upon which it is
located.
      2.   There shall be no more than two (2) IWCFAPs per block, unless the
Common Council determines that it is appropriate to have more in any one block.
      3.   Only one WCF shall be permitted on any IWCFAP.
      4.   A WCF on an IWCFAP shall consist of a directional (panel) antenna
flush mounted on the side of the pole and shall not extend more than eight
inches (8") out from the side of the pole. The antenna shall be equal to or
less than six feet (6') in height, including the support system, if any.
Surface area of an antenna shall not exceed five hundred eighty (580) square
inches. The antenna and any dish shall be either fully concealed within the
pole or camouflaged to appear to be an integrated part of the pole.
      5.   The pole shall be not larger than twelve inches (12") in diameter at
its base and eight inches (8") in diameter at its top.
      6.   The IWCFAP shall be painted a wood color brown to disguise same.
      7.   All electrical wires and transmission line cable to and from the
pole shall be installed underground or within the pole or camouflaged.
      8.   Any back haul dish on the pole shall not be larger than two feet
(2') in diameter and shall be removed upon fiber optic, T-1 telephone line or
equivalent technology being provided to the site or within two (2) City blocks
of the site.
      9.   For WCFs located within developed streets, there shall be a minimum
horizontal separation of three hundred feet (300') between the WCFs of a single
licensed carrier and a minimum horizontal separation of one hundred feet (100')
between the WCFs of any other licensed carrier.
      10.   Equipment enclosures shall be underground or, unless otherwise
approved by the Common Council, at an appropriate aboveground location, in
which case, such enclosure shall be the minimum necessary to serve the IWCFAP
in question.
      11.   A right-of-way use lease shall be applied for as part of the WCF
application and shall be obtained by the applicant from the Common Council
prior to issuance of the WCF permit.
   C.   Concealed Roof Mounted WCFs ("CRWCF"): In addition to all other
requirements of this chapter, a concealed roof mounted WCF shall comply with
the following:
      1.   No portion of the CRWCF shall extend above the highest portion of
the building.
      2.   Aboveground structures shall comply with all setback and other
requirements of the underlying zoning district in which the subject property is
located.
      3.   All concealed roof mounted WCFs shall be concealed from view from
surrounding properties and from roads (public and private), except for the back
haul dish which shall be disguised in a manner not to appear to be such a dish
to the greatest extent feasible. Such back haul dish shall be of the smallest
size possible. All concealed roof mounted WCFs shall be compatible with
existing architectural elements, building materials, colors and other site
characteristics.
      4.   Equipment enclosures shall be designed be located, whenever
possible, within an existing building. If an exterior equipment enclosure is
necessary, it shall be designed consistent with the requirements of this
chapter and obtain design review approval under this title. Exterior equipment
enclosures shall be designed, installed and maintained to blend with the
existing site. Landscaping and screening shall be installed to visually screen
the aboveground equipment enclosure from adjacent properties and public rights-
of-way. Upon completion, the permittee(s) of the facility shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the continued maintenance and replacement of all
required landscaping and screening materials.
   D.   Governmental Emergency Services WCFs ("GESWCF"): Governmental emergency
services WCFs shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of this title regarding conditional use permits and design review
approval. A GESWCF may be granted a waiver from any requirement of this chapter
(except, that no non- GESWCF may be co-located thereon) upon a finding by the
Common Council that the proposed emergency service is necessary for the public
health safety and welfare, and no reasonable alternative to that proposed WCF
exists to provide such governmental emergency service.
   E.   Review Of Alternatives: In reviewing the alternatives submitted with
regard to an application under subsection 10-23-6C21 of this chapter, the City
shall compare the WCF as proposed in the application with the alternatives to
determine which best meets: 1) the location and facility type standards in
section
10-23-8 of this chapter; and 2) the standards and criteria set forth in this
section; and 3) which is the least intrusive on the values set forth in the
intent and purposes set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-10: SAFETY STANDARDS:
All WCFs shall meet current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and
any other governmental agency with the authority to regulate same. If such
standards and regulations are changed, then the owner of a WCF governed by this
chapter shall bring such WCF into compliance with the revised standards and
regulations within three (3) months of the effective date of the revised
standards and regulations, unless a more stringent compliance schedule is
mandated by the controlling Federal law or agency. Failure to bring a WCF into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds
for revocation of the WCF permit. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-11: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Each permittee shall maintain its WCF in a good and safe condition, preserving
the original appearance and concealment, disguise or screening elements
incorporated into the design at the time of approval and in a manner which
complies with all applicable Federal, State and local requirements. Such
maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, such items as painting,
repair of equipment and maintenance of landscaping. If the permittee fails to
maintain the facility, the City may undertake the maintenance at the expense of
the permittee or terminate the permit, at its sole option. Failure to properly
maintain a WCF shall be grounds for revocation of the WCF permit. (Ord. 2001-
09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-12: MODIFICATION OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   A.   New Permit: Any proposed modification, change or addition to any WCF
shall require the issuance of a new WCF permit, pursuant to the requirements of
this chapter. This subsection shall not apply to routine maintenance of a WCF
or to the replacement of any portion of the WCF with identical equipment on a
WCF in conformance with this chapter.
   B.   Facility Upgrade: At the time of modification or replacement of any
existing WCF component, such component shall be replaced with equipment of
equal or greater technical capacity and reduced in size so as to reduce visual
impact.
   C.   Existing Uses: Any WCF lawfully existing on the effective date hereof
shall be allowed to continue operation as it presently exists. Routine
maintenance and repair shall be permitted. However, any exterior modification,
change, addition to or replacement of the WCF or any component thereof shall
comply with all the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-13: ABANDONMENT OR DISCONTINUATION OF USE:
   A.   Construction or activation of a WCF shall commence within ninety (90)
days of issuance of the WCF permit or the permit shall be null and void ab
initio. An additional ninety (90) day extension may be granted by the
Administrator due to weather conditions or other extenuating circumstances
beyond the control of the applicant. Requests and approvals of any such
extension shall be made in writing prior to the expiration of the time period
sought to be extended.
   B.   At such time that any carrier plans to abandon or discontinue operation
of a WCF, such carrier shall notify the City by certified U.S. mail of the
proposed date of abandonment or discontinuation of operations. Such notice
shall be given no less than thirty (30) days prior to abandonment or
discontinuation of operations. In the event that a licensed carrier fails to
give such notice, the WCF shall be considered abandoned upon such
discontinuation of operations. In the event that more than one provider is
using the WCF, the WCF shall not be considered abandoned until all such users
cease using the structure as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Upon abandonment or discontinuation of use or termination or revocation
of a WCF permit, the carrier shall physically remove the WCF within ninety (90)
days from the date of abandonment or discontinuation of use. "Physically
remove" shall include, but not be limited to, removal of antennas, support
structures, equipment enclosures and security barriers from the subject
property and proper disposal of the waste materials from the site in accordance
with Federal, State and local laws, rules and regulations.
   D.   If a carrier fails to remove a WCF in accordance with this chapter, the
City may cause the facility to be removed, and all expenses of removal shall be
paid by the owner of the subject property where the facility is located. Said
cost shall become a lien upon said real property and foreclosed by the City.
(Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-14: RECOVERY OF CITY COSTS AND SPECIAL REVIEW FEES:
The wireless communication providers use various methodologies and analysis
tools, including geological based computer software, to determine the specific
technical parameters of personal wireless services and low power mobile radio
facilities, such as expected coverage area, antenna configuration, topographic
constraints that affect signal paths, etc. In certain instances, there may be
need for expert review by a third party of the technical data submitted by the
applicant and/or to develop alternative proposals as required under this
chapter. The Administrator or the commission shall require such technical
review to be paid for by the applicant as a special review fee. The applicant
shall pay the City the estimated cost of the expert review prior to further
processing of the application by the City. If additional costs are incurred,
the applicant shall pay those prior to issuance of the WCF permit, and if not
all of the estimated fees are used by the City to pay the expert, the remainder
of said funds shall be refunded to the applicant by the City at the time of
issuance of the WCF permit. The selection of the third party expert shall be at
the City's sole discretion. Based on the results of the third party review, the
City may require changes to the application for the WCF that comply with the
recommendations of the expert. The expert review of the technical submission
may include, but not be limited to, any of the following: the accuracy and
completeness of any of the information submitted; the applicability of analysis
techniques and methodologies; review or development of alternative WCF
proposals under this chapter; the validity of conclusions reached; and/or any
specific technical issues designated by the City. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-15: EXEMPT FACILITIES:
   A.   The requirements imposed by this chapter shall not apply to antennas
designed to receive video programming signals from direct broadcast satellite
(DBS) services, multichannel multipoint distribution providers (MMDS), or
television broadcast stations (TVBS); provided, that: 1) the antenna measures
thirty nine inches (39") (1 m) or less in diameter; 2) the antenna is attached
to a building; and 3) the antenna is not used to provide commercial service or
service to any third party.
   B.   The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to the installation of
a television satellite dish antenna for personal, noncommercial use when
attached to a residential structure and the antenna measures thirty nine inches
(39") (1 m) or less in diameter.
   C.   The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to amateur radio
facilities owned and operated by a Federally licensed amateur radio operator or
used exclusively as noncommercial, receive only antennas. However, such
facilities shall not be co- located on a WCF unless and until a WCF permit is
obtained under this chapter. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001)
10-23-16: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal From Decision Of Administrator:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Administrator made in
interpreting or enforcing this chapter may appeal such a decision to the
commission by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
twenty (20) days of such decision, stating the date and nature of the decision
appealed from and the grounds for the appeal. If no notice of appeal is so
filed, the decision of the Administrator shall be final and not subject to
further appeal or review.
      2.   Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the notice of appeal, the
Administrator shall provide the appellant and file with the commission copies
of the record on appeal, including all applications and other documents and
exhibits pertinent to the appeal, together with the Administrator's certificate
stating that the documents listed comprise the complete record of the decision
under appeal.
      3.   The commission shall hold a hearing at a regular meeting of the
commission within thirty (30) days of the Administrator's certification of the
record on appeal. The appeal shall be based and heard solely upon the record
before the Administrator. The commission shall, within thirty (30) days after
the hearing, enter a written order affirming, reversing or modifying the
Administrator's decision. The order shall also contain the reasons for the
commission's decision.
   B.   Appeal From Decision Of Commission:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the commission may appeal
the commission's decision to the Common Council by filing a written notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within twenty (20) days of the commission's final
decision. The notice of appeal shall state the date and the substance of the
decision appealed from and state the grounds for the appeal. If no notice of
appeal is so filed, the decision of the commission shall be final and not
subject to further appeal or review.
      2.   Within twenty (20) days after the filing of the notice of appeal,
the appellant may order a transcript of the proceedings to be prepared, and the
estimated cost of the transcript shall be paid by the appellant prior to
ordering the transcript. The actual cost of the transcript shall be paid for by
the appellant in full before the transcript may be forwarded to the Common
Council. Within twenty (20) days after receipt of the transcript, the
Administrator shall serve to the appellant and the Common Council one copy of
the transcript, and the record of the appeal including all applications,
minutes and other documents and exhibits pertinent to the appeal, together with
the Administrator's certificate stating that the documents listed comprise the
complete record of the proceedings under appeal.
      3.   At a regular meeting, the Common Council shall hold a hearing on the
appeal within thirty (30) days of the Administrator's certification of the
transcript and record on appeal. The appeal shall be based and heard solely
upon the record before the commission. Each party may not present more than
fifteen (15) minutes of oral argument to the Common Council. The Common Council
shall enter an order within thirty (30) days after the hearing affirming,
reversing, or modifying the commission's decision. The order shall contain a
statement of the reasons for the Common Council's decision. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-
14-2001)
10-23-17: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense. In addition, the City may seek to enforce this
chapter by appropriate civil remedies and/or revocation of a permit issued
hereunder. (Ord. 2001-09, 6-14-2001; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 24
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUDs)
SECTION:
10-24-1: Title, Purpose And Interpretation
10-24-2: Definitions
10-24-3: Planned Unit Development Permits And Applications
10-24-4: Standards And Criteria
10-24-5: Procedures For Review; Conditions, Amendment, Revocation Of Permits;
Appeals; Fees
10-24-6: Penalties
10-24-1: TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BELLEVUE
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OR PUD ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority And Purpose: The City of Bellevue recognizes that strict
adherence to the bulk regulations set forth in traditional zoning ordinances is
not always the most effective manner in which to carry out the intent of such
ordinances or the goals and objectives of the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan. The
planned unit development (PUD) process encourages flexibility and creativity in
the development of land in order to improve the design, character, and quality
of new development. Specific purposes of the planned unit development process
include: promoting flexibility in the type, design, and siting of structures;
encouraging more efficient use of land, public streets, utilities, and
government services; avoiding or mitigating hazardous areas; preserving open
space for the benefit of residents of planned unit developments, as well as the
community in general; and, achieving a compatible relationship between the uses
in the planned unit developments, surrounding areas and the community in
general.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code sections
67-6501, et seq., including without limitation sections 67-6512, 67-6515, and
67-6513, and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution. The PUD permit
required under this chapter is a special use permit authorized under Idaho Code
67-6512 and this chapter shall be deemed part of the Bellevue zoning
regulations. The provisions for planned unit developments contained in this
chapter are intended to encourage the total planning of developments. In order
to provide the flexibility necessary to achieve the purposes of this chapter,
waivers or modifications to standard zoning requirements may be permitted
subject to the granting of a PUD permit. The review process prescribed in this
chapter is intended to assure compatibility and harmonious development between
a PUD and surrounding properties and the City at large.
This chapter is enacted for the general purposes of promoting the public
health, safety, comfort, and general welfare of the City of Bellevue and its
inhabitants; to conserve and protect property and property values; to secure
the most appropriate use of lands; to control the density of population; to
prevent undue traffic congestion; to preserve the scenic, historic, and
aesthetic values of Bellevue; to insure the economical provision of adequate
public improvements and facilities; to protect and enhance important historical
and environmental features; to protect natural resources and wildlife habitat;
to avoid undue concentrations of population and the overcrowding of land; to
ensure that development of land is commensurate with the physical
characteristics of the land; to protect life and property in areas subject to
natural hazards; to avoid undue water and air pollution; and, to implement the
goals and policies set forth in the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan, this title,
and the Bellevue subdivision ordinance.
   C.   Minimum Requirements: The provisions of this chapter are the minimum
requirements for PUDs. Except for waivers and modifications as specifically
provided for in this chapter, whenever the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted ordinance, rule, regulation or resolution apply, the most restrictive
or highest standards shall govern. In addition, it may be determined
appropriate by the commission or the Common Council to apply reasonable
requirements greater than the minimum standards due to special physical
characteristics of the land or characteristics of the development. Subjects not
covered in this chapter shall be governed by other applicable ordinances, rules
and regulations. (Ord. 2006-15, 8-10-2006)
10-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, each of the following words shall have the meaning set
forth below. For the interpretation and administration of this chapter, when
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; the singular shall include the plural; the masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter; the word "shall" is mandatory, and the word
"may" indicates the use of discretion in making a decision.
All of the definitions set forth in this title, as amended, and the Bellevue
subdivision ordinance 91-01, as amended, are each hereby adopted by reference
as if fully set forth in this section. All definitions set forth herein or
adopted herein by reference shall apply whether or not the defined words or
terms have the first letter of each word capitalized or in lower case letters.
ACTIVE RECREATIONAL USES: Means improved parks, play fields, swimming pools,
equestrian centers, golf courses, recreational bike paths and trails, skate
parks, tennis courts, recreation centers and similar recreation facilities in
accordance with the City Park Master Plan. Only twenty five percent (25%) of
the required active recreational uses may be located within an avalanche area.
ADJACENT: Means parcels of real property which are separated only by
intervening public right-of-way, easement or waterway.
ADMINISTRATOR: Means the Planning and Zoning Administrator of the City of
Bellevue, Idaho.
BELLEVUE SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE: Means Bellevue ordinance 91-01 and amendments
thereto.
CITY: Means the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
COMMISSION: Means the Bellevue Planning and Zoning Commission.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Means the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan and amendments
thereto.
CONDITIONAL USE: Means a use or occupancy of land permitted only upon the
issuance of conditional use permit, and subject to the limitations and
restrictions specified in such permit. A conditional use is also referred to as
a special use permit under Idaho Code section 67-6512.
CONTIGUOUS AND ADJOINING: Mean parcels of real property which have a common
property line.
COUNCIL: Means the Common Council of Bellevue, Idaho.
DULY NOTICED PUBLIC HEARING: Means a public hearing with notice as required by
the applicable laws of the State of Idaho.
NATURAL RESOURCES: Means wetlands, riparian areas, wildlife habitat, wildlife
migration corridors, significant existing trees and significant geological
features.
NET LAND AREA: Means all lands within a proposed PUD except land: a) with a
slope of more than fifteen percent (15%) or laying above such slope line or b)
within a floodway or c) within streets or parking areas.
OWNER: Means the individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having an interest in the real property proposed
for development as a PUD by ownership or option to purchase.
PARKING AREA: Means the entire parking and vehicular circulation area(s)
associated with the planned unit development, including parking spaces, access
drives and aisles, and loading areas.
PERMITTED USE: Means an authorized use in a particular zone district which does
not require a conditional use permit, but which is subject to the restrictions
particular to that district.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OR PUD: Means development of land in which the
standard land use regulations may be modified or waived in order to promote
beneficial development of an entire tract of land in conformance with an
approved PUD permit and development plan accentuating useable open space,
recreational uses, public amenities, and harmonious development with
surrounding properties and the City at large.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT DENSITY: Means the total number of residential dwelling
units permitted under this title within the net land area of the PUD, but
excluding the areas proposed for commercial, light-industrial and other non-
residential uses.
USEABLE OPEN SPACE: Means green belts and landscaped common areas devoid of
buildings, streets, parking areas, or structures. Useable open space shall not
include the area within any floodway, or the riparian setback of the Big Wood
River or the area with a slope of greater than fifteen percent (15%). The areas
of active recreational uses shall also be included in the calculation of
useable open space. (Ord. 2006-15, 8-10-2006)
10-24-3: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS:
   A.   PUD Is A Conditional Permit Within All Zoning Districts: A planned unit
development shall be a conditional use within all zoning districts within the
City.
   B.   A PUD Permit And A Conditional Use Permit Are Required: Any owner
wishing to develop a planned unit development shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter and also shall apply for and obtain a PUD permit
under this chapter and a conditional use permit under chapter 15 of this title.
The PUD permit application shall be submitted and reviewed concurrently as the
conditional use permit application as required by chapter 15 of this title and
any other application as may be required by this chapter, such as a large block
plat preliminary plat application. The applicant may also concurrently file
other appropriate land use applications affecting the same piece of property
the applicant desires subject to the approval of the Administrator. Decisions
on concurrent applications shall be voted separately by the commission and the
Council.
   C.   PUD Application And Development Plan: An applicant for a PUD permit
shall file with the Administrator each of the following:
      1.   PUD Permit Application: The PUD permit application shall be made
upon forms furnished by the Administrator, and as part thereof shall include
ten (10) copies of the PUD application, PUD development plan, large block
subdivision plat, and supporting exhibits. Also, a conditional permit
application under chapter 15 of this title shall be simultaneously filed with
the Administrator. A PUD application shall not be deemed filed with the City
until all required plans, plats information, documents and concurrent
applications have been filed with and all required fees paid to the
Administrator. The Administrator shall certify the date when a PUD permit
application and the conditional use permit application are each deemed complete
and filed with Bellevue. The original application shall be kept on file at
Bellevue City Hall and a copy of the certified application form shall be given
to the applicant. The PUD permit application shall consist of the following:
         a.   PUD Application: The application shall contain the following
information and exhibits:
            (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
            (2)   Legal description of the property.
            (3)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Administrator,
showing property lines, streets, existing zoning and such other items as the
Administrator may reasonably require.
            (4)   A current title report together with a copy of the owner's
recorded deed to said property or copy of the document establishing the
applicant's interest in the subject property. If the applicant is acting as the
agent of the owners, a written and notarized appointment as agent of the owner
(s) of record of said real property shall be filed. If the owner is a
partnership or limited liability company or closely held corporation the name
and address of each person having an interest therein.
            (5)   Proposed schedule for the development of the project and
construction of infrastructure.
            (6)   A map showing the lots and parcels of land within three
hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the property in question,
together with a list of the names and addresses of the property owner and
residents of each parcel within the three hundred feet (300') together with
stamped envelopes addressed to each of the names on said list.
            (7)   Payment of the applicable fees established by resolution of
the Council.
            (8)   Additional studies and information may be reasonably required
prior to or during the review process by the Administrator, Commission or
Council of the social, economic, fiscal or environmental effects of the
proposed development.
         b.   PUD Development Plan: As part of the application, a PUD
Development Plan shall be submitted which shall contain the following:
            (1)   The scale, northpoint and date;
            (2)   The name of the proposed development;
            (3)   The name, address, mailing address and telephone number of
each engineer, surveyor, or other person preparing the development plan and/or
accompanying information or documents;
            (4)   The scaled location of existing buildings, water bodies and
courses, adjacent streets, alleys, and easements, public and private, and
exterior boundary lines of the property together with dimensions; and, the
location of existing structures on adjacent properties;
            (5)   Location of zoning district lines within the proposed project
and within the immediate vicinity;
            (6)   The location of existing and proposed street rights-of-way,
including dimensions and proposed street names, lots and lot lines, and
easements (public and private);
            (7)   The location, size and proposed use of all land intended to
be dedicated for public use or for common use of all future property owners
within the proposed development;
            (8)   The preliminary design, location, size and type of sanitary
and storm sewers, water mains and facilities, culverts, utilities, street
improvements, street lighting, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, private irrigation
systems, and all other existing and proposed utilities and other surface or
subsurface structures within, immediately adjacent to, or proposed to serve the
development. Except for the large block subdivision plat, these plans need not
be construction level drawings, but shall be prepared by an Idaho licensed
engineer;
            (9)   The boundaries of the floodplain, floodway, wetlands, and
avalanche hazard areas within or affecting the development;
            (10)   Proposed lot area of each lot;
            (11)   A surveyed contour map of the existing topography of the
property and a contour map of the proposed development with contour lines at a
maximum interval of five feet (5') to show the existing and proposed
configuration of the land together with the documentation upon which such
contour maps were prepared;
            (12)   A survey plat of the property;
            (13)   General building design standards for each phase or housing
type within the project. This shall include elevations and floor plans showing
the general design elements of building types proposed within the PUD,
including, without limitation, approximate square footages, heights and
materials. A PUD or portion thereof limited to construction of single family
dwellings on lots meeting the minimum lot size, need not submit elevations and
floor plans, but general building design standards to prevent construction of
homes of substantially similar design. This does not constitute a design review
application and any design review application and approval will be subject to
the ordinances in effect at the time of such application;
            (14)   A general drainage plan showing the location, size and
direction of all water courses and drainage flows, all drainage canals and
structures, the proposed method of disposing of runoff water, and the
approximate location and size of all drainage easements, whether they are
located within or outside of the proposed development;
            (15)   A landscaping plan showing the location and size of existing
mature trees, and established shrub masses, and conceptually showing the
location, and a list of the size and type of proposed landscaping of the
project;
            (16)   Tabulation of the anticipated average percentage of lot
coverage by proposed buildings, and percentage of lot coverage by proposed
parking areas shown by uses together with the total square footage of the
parcel of property. A PUD or portion thereof limited to construction of single
family dwellings on lots meeting the minimum lot size, need not submit such
information;
            (17)   A map showing existing vegetation, significant wildlife
habitat, migration corridors, breeding areas and critical winter range within
the property;
            (18)   Studies may be reasonably required prior to or during the
review process by the Administrator, Commission or Council of the social,
economic, fiscal environmental or other impacts or effects of the proposed
development;
            (19)   Additional information as reasonably required at the
discretion of the Administrator, Commission or Council prior to or during the
review process.
         c.   PUD Large Block Subdivision Plat: As part of the application, a
preliminary large block subdivision plat shall be prepared in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter and the Bellevue subdivision ordinance of all
large blocks proposed within the PUD. In addition, the large block plat shall
include for each large block the maximum allowable residential densities and
housing types, square footages of structures thereon, non- residential uses,
location of required building envelopes, location of all streets, alleys,
pathways, easements, open spaces, parks, and other recreational facilities,
public spaces and lands. As a condition of final PUD permit approval, the
applicant shall prepare a final large block subdivision plat in accordance with
the requirements of the Bellevue subdivision ordinance and the PUD permit
approval, and cause the same to be recorded in the Office of the Blaine County
Recorder.
         d.   Waivers And Modifications: Waiver or modification of any of the
requirements of the bulk, setback, lot size or other physical standards of this
title or Bellevue subdivision ordinance may be granted as the Council deems
appropriate on a case-by-case basis under the standards and criteria of this
chapter and chapter 15 of this title subject to such conditions, limitations
and/or additional development standards as the Council may prescribe: 1) to
mitigate adverse impact thereof, 2) to further the land use policies of the
City, 3) to ensure that the benefits derived from the development justify a
departure from the traditional zoning and subdivision regulations, 4) to meet
the intent of this chapter, 5) protect the public health, safety and welfare,
and/or 6) not be detrimental to property owners and residents of the immediate
area or the City. As part of the PUD permit application, an applicant shall
file a written list of waivers or modifications requested for the proposed PUD.
This list may be modified to reflect any changes in the application during the
review process. The granting of any requested waiver or modification shall be
expressly stated in the written PUD permit to be valid and shall be subject to
such conditions as the Council determines are appropriate.
         e.   Phased Development Schedule And Agreement: The development of the
PUD may be planned in phases provided that as part of the PUD permit
application a development schedule is submitted by the applicant and such
schedule approved by the Council as part of a Phased Development Agreement
between the applicant and City. The development schedule shall contain a
detailed statement of which large blocks are within each phase and the time
schedule for the construction of infrastructure improvements, amenities,
recreational facilities, open space, useable open space and improvements, and
public facilities and dedications in each phase. Each phase shall be planned
with regard to infrastructure, public services and facilities to be self-
sufficient and not dependent on later phases and so that failure to proceed to
the subsequent phases of a PUD will not have any adverse impacts on the PUD,
the surrounding area or the community in general.
         f.   Fees: The applicant shall pay to the City the PUD permit
application fee set by resolution of the Council to reimburse the City for the
reasonable costs to administer and review the application. (Ord. 2006-15, 8-10-
2006)
10-24-4: STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
   A.   Application Of Standards And Criteria: The standards and criteria set
forth in this chapter shall apply to review of all PUD permit applications. The
standards and criteria shall be used to review and evaluate the proposed PUD in
comparison to the manner of development and effects of permitted uses and
standard development allowed on the property in question. Modification or
waiver from certain standard zoning and subdivision requirements may be
permitted pursuant to subsection 10-24-3C1d of this chapter. In order for a PUD
permit application to be approved, the Council shall make a positive finding
that each of the following evaluation standards and criteria have been met. The
evaluation standards and criteria are as follows:
      1.   The tract or parcel of land proposed for PUD development shall be at
least one acre in size in the General Residential and Transitional zones and at
least one-half (½) acre in size in all other zones and be under one ownership
or the subject of an application filed jointly by the owners of all the
property included therein. All land within the development shall be contiguous
except for intervening waterways. Parcels that are not contiguous due to
intervening streets are discouraged. However, under appropriate circumstances,
commission and the Council may consider lands that include intervening streets
on a case by case basis;
      2.   That the proposed PUD will not be detrimental to the present and
permitted uses of surrounding areas;
      3.   That the proposed PUD will have a beneficial effect not normally
achieved by standard subdivision development;
      4.   The PUD shall be in harmony with the surrounding area;
      5.   Densities and uses may be transferred between zoning districts
within a PUD as permitted under this chapter, provided the residential
development density of units and the total aggregate gross floor area of uses
shall be no greater than that allowed in the zoning district or districts in
which the development is located. Notwithstanding the above, the Council may
grant additional density bonus above the aggregate overall allowable density
pursuant to subsection B of this section or permit certain limited uses not
otherwise permitted pursuant to subsection C of this section;
      6.   That the proposed vehicular and non-motorized transportation system:
         a.   Is adequate to carry anticipated traffic consistent with existing
and future development of surrounding properties.
         b.   Will not generate vehicular traffic to cause undue congestion of
the public street network within or outside the PUD.
         c.   Is designed to provide automotive and pedestrian safety and
convenience, and connectivity with existing streets, bike paths and other
public pathways.
         d.   Is designed to provide adequate snow removal and storage.
         e.   Is designed so that traffic ingress and egress will have minimum
impact on adjacent residential uses except where connecting to existing streets
is determined by the Council to be appropriate. This includes design of
roadways and access to connect to arterial streets wherever possible, and
design of ingress, egress and parking areas to have the least impact on
surrounding uses.
         f.   Includes the use of landscape buffers or other physical
separations to buffer vehicular movement and parking areas from adjacent uses
or significant public view corridors.
         g.   Is designed so that roads are placed so that disturbance of
natural features and existing vegetation is minimized.
         h.   Includes bikepaths, trails and sidewalks that create an internal
circulation system and connect to surrounding bikepaths, trails and walkways.
         i.   In each case where a PUD is located adjacent to public lands,
public easements to those lands shall be provided;
      7.   That the development plan promotes the purposes and goals of the
Bellevue Comprehensive Plan, this title, and other applicable ordinances of the
City;
      8.   That the development plan preserves the site's significant natural
resources;
      9.   Substantial buffer planting strips or other barriers are provided
where no natural buffers exist;
      10.   Adequate useable open space shall be provided for the PUD. The
following minimum requirements shall apply to usable open space:
         a.   Not less than ten percent (10%) of the total net land area shall
be usable open space in a configuration useable and convenient to the residents
of the PUD and the public.
         b.   The applicant shall dedicate the useable open space and
improvements to the homeowners or to the City or other appropriate public
entity as determined appropriate by the Council.
         c.   Provision shall be made for adequate and continuing management
and funding of all useable open spaces and all common facilities to ensure
proper operation and maintenance;
      11.   Location of buildings, parking areas and common areas shall seek to
provide adequate privacy within the PUD and in relationship to adjacent
properties and reasonably protect solar access to adjacent properties;
      12.   In addition to the useable open space set forth in subsection A10
of this section, adequate public and private recreational facilities shall be
provided. The public active recreational uses shall be in accordance with the
City's Comprehensive Plan and its Park Master Plan. Only twenty five percent
(25%) of required active recreational uses may be located within an avalanche
area. Provision of adequate on-site recreational facilities may not be required
if it is found that the project is of insufficient size or density to warrant
same and the occupant's needs for recreational facilities will be adequately
provided by payment of a recreation fee in lieu of such facilities to the City
for development of additional active park facilities;
      13.   There is an adequate project center or building of sufficient size
to provide for offices for homeowner administrative functions and meetings, and
for weddings, reunions and other special events for the residents of the
project. If the Common Council determines that the PUD is of insufficient size
to create the demand for such a facility, the Common Council may waive this
requirement;
      14.   There shall be special development objectives and special
characteristics or physical conditions of the site that justify the granting of
the PUD permit;
      15.   That public services, facilities and utilities are adequate to
serve the proposed PUD and anticipated development within the appropriate
service areas;
      16.   That the PUD will be adequately served by essential public services
and facilities, such as police, fire, schools, water and sewer, transportation
and recreation without substantial costs to the public;
      17.   All utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, shall be
installed underground;
      18.   The proposed development can be completed within one year of the
date of approval or in the case of a phased development that each phase
contains all the necessary elements and improvements to exist independently
from proposed future phases of the PUD and a Phasing Agreement has been entered
between the applicant and the Council;
      19.   That the application complies with each of the standards of
evaluation and approval for a conditional use permit under chapter 15 of this
title;
      20.   That the project complies with all applicable ordinances, rules and
regulations of the City of Bellevue, Idaho, including but not limited to this
title and the Bellevue subdivision ordinance, except as modified or waived as
permitted under this chapter;
      21.   Prior to and as a condition of issuance of a building permit for
each single family home constructed within the project, the application shall
be reviewed by the City Planning and Zoning Administrator, Building Official
and Chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission, which three (3) member
group is herein referred to as the "PUD Design Review Conformance Committee"
("DRCC"). The DRCC shall review all building permit applications and approve or
deny same based upon the standard of: do the plans conform to the General
Constructions Standards and the PUD permit. All decisions of the DRCC shall be
in writing. A decision of the DRCC is subject to appeals in the manner and
within the time limits as set forth in subsection 10-24-5N of this chapter;
      22.   The project is designed to reflect traditional neighborhood
interaction and values, and to be connected to and integrated with the
community.
   B.   Density Bonus: An application that meets all of the requirements of
subsection A of this section, may be granted the following maximum increases in
residential development density as the Council deems appropriate based upon the
specifics of the project:
      1.   Ten percent (10%) if a recreational resource such as tennis courts,
ball fields, swimming pool or gymnasium (including land, improvements,
regulation of prices, and provision for appropriate long-term funding) are
dedicated to the City or made available to the general public under an
agreement accepted by the Council;
      2.   Five percent (5%) for incorporation of alternative energy, energy
saving design, construction and materials;
      3.   Ten percent (10%) for public transportation facilities or other
public buildings provided to the City by the applicant;
      4.   Five percent (5%) for the restoration or improvement of natural
resources, particularly streams and wetlands; and/or
      5.   Ten percent (10%) for provision of community housing above that
which is then required.
   C.   Additional Uses May Be Allowed: In addition to the permitted uses
allowed by this title within the PUD, up to ten percent (10%) of the net land
area may be directed to other commercial, industrial, and public uses that are
not allowed within the zoning district upon the Council finding each of the
following:
      1.   That the uses are appropriate with the permitted and primary uses
within the PUD and nearby properties;
      2.   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the
PUD;
      3.   That the uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD and
appropriately phased during the build out of the PUD;
      4.   That the uses are located and designed as to provide direct access
to a collector or arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
      5.   That the uses are not detrimental to the nearby properties, the
existing non-residential zoning districts with the City or existing economic
base of the City. (Ord. 2006-15, 8-10-2006; amd. Ord. 2025-01, 2-10-2025)
10-24-5: PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW; CONDITIONS, AMENDMENT, REVOCATION OF PERMITS;
APPEALS; FEES:
   A.   Pre-Application Meeting: Prior to filing an application, the applicant
shall confer with the Administrator to allow the applicant and the City staff
to informally review the general proposal. The topics of discussion may
include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Characteristics of the site and surrounding area; significant
natural and man-made features; natural hazards, resources or other special
considerations of the site; services to and accessibility of the site;
surrounding development and land uses; and existing zoning;
      2.   The nature of the development proposed, including proposed land use,
coverages and densities; the placement of proposed buildings and other
improvements; the location, type and method of maintenance of common open space
or treatment of public use areas; the preservation of natural features;
proposed parking areas and internal circulation system, including easements;
types of water and sewage treatment systems proposed;
      3.   Community policy considerations including the review process and
likely conformity of the proposed development with the policies and regulations
of applicable ordinances;
      4.   Applicable regulations, review procedures and submission
requirements.
   B.   Administrative Review: The Administrator upon receiving a PUD permit
application and fees shall have thirty (30) days to certify same as complete or
submit in writing to the applicant all deficiencies that exist with regard to
such application not being so certified as complete. The applicant shall have
thirty (30) days to cure such deficiencies. If such deficiencies are not cured
within such time period, the application shall be deemed denied on the basis of
an incomplete application subject to appeal of that administrative decision as
provided in this chapter.
   C.   Commission Action: Upon certification of a PUD permit application, the
Administrator shall refer the application and information to the appropriate
City departments and other governmental agencies for their review and comment.
Such departments and agencies shall have thirty (30) days to review and respond
with written comments. Thereafter, the Administrator shall have thirty (30)
days to review such application and prepare for the first public hearing,
including publishing of notice of such public hearing. The Administrator shall
place the PUD permit application and concurrent applications on the agenda of
the commission for consideration and at least one duly noticed public hearing.
The commission shall review the application, all supporting documents and
plans, and public comments before making its recommendation to the Council.
Within sixty (60) days from date of the first public hearing the commission
shall make written findings and recommendations to the Council to approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the application and appropriate conditions
to place upon any approval, unless the commission makes a finding that due to
the complexity of the project or changes in the proposed project or the need
for additional information or due to weather conditions, adequate review of the
project is not possible and additional review time is necessary. The length of
such extension shall be determined by the commission based upon relevant
factors and evidence before the commission. Thereafter, the PUD permit
application together with the record and recommendations of the commission
shall be forwarded to the Council for final action.
   D.   City Council Action: Upon receiving the recommendations of the
commission, the PUD permit application and the concurrent permit applications
shall be placed upon the agenda of a regular Council meeting. The Council shall
hold at least one duly noticed public hearing and review the application, the
supporting plans and documentation, the entire record before and
recommendations of the commission, and comments from the public. The Council
may require additional information, including, but not limited to matters not
addressed by the commission. Thereafter, the Council may approve, or approve
with conditions, or deny the application within sixty (60) days from the date
of the Council's first duly noticed public hearing meeting, unless the Council
makes a finding that due to the complexity of the project, or changes in the
proposed project, or the need for additional information or due to weather
conditions adequate review of the project is not possible, additional review
time is necessary. The length of the extension shall be determined by the
Council based upon relevant factors and evidence before the Council.
      1.   If the Council finds a substantial error in the information
presented to the commission or new information is presented which may make a
material difference in the recommendation made by the commission, the Council
may remand the application to the commission for further review and
recommendations.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of its being signed, the Administrator shall
transmit a copy of the Council's decision to the appellant and any affected
person 1
who has requested a copy in writing.
      3.   No applicant for a PUD which has been denied shall be resubmitted
until the expiration of one year from the date of such denial, unless the
Administrator makes a determination that there have been significant changes to
the application or proof of changed conditions sufficient to justify such new
application.
   E.   Conditions Of Approval: In order to make any of the required findings
for approval of a PUD permit or any of the concurrent applications, the Council
may impose reasonable conditions on approval, including, but not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Minimize adverse impact on surrounding properties, developments, or
public services, facilities or utilities.
      2.   Control the sequence and time of development.
      3.   Establish the duration of development.
      4.   Assure that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Require the provision for on-site or off-site public improvements,
facilities, or services when the proposed development is found to create a
significant adverse impact on off-site public streets, facilities, utilities,
or services, including but not limited to bridges, intersections, road, traffic
control devices, water mains, sewer mains, fire equipment, transit system and
recreational facilities.
      6.   Require methods or manner of construction to minimize impact on
adjacent properties or to prevent erosion or runoff and similar environmental
impacts.
      7.   Require dedications of land or cash in lieu thereof for public
streets, services, parks, transit or similar uses.
      8.   Require additional plans or engineering revision for any aspect of
the development plan, or require submission of a revised development plan to
incorporate changes made therein during the review process.
      9.   Require written agreements executed by the developer to secure
performance of any requirement or condition to be imposed as part of the
approval including, but not limited to, development, services, or annexation
agreements.
      10.   Require recordation of documents with the Blaine County Recorder
including, but not limited to, those required pursuant to subsection E9 of this
section, Declarations of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions, easements,
management agreements and similar documents.
      11.   Dedications of land or cash in lieu of dedications of land for
street, park, transit and/or similar uses.
      12.   Such other reasonable conditions as the Council may deem
appropriate with regard to the proposed PUD.
   F.   Bonding Requirements: The Council may require the applicant, as a
condition of the PUD permit approval, to construct certain improvements,
private and/or public utilities, services, facilities, recreation or other
amenities, and landscaping or in lieu to post an irrevocable letter of credit
from a bank with a local branch office in Blaine County, Idaho, at which the
letter of credit may be drawn or certified funds in a form approved by the City
Attorney in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the bona fide
estimate of cost of construction as established by the City Engineer.
   G.   Design Review Approval Required: Each structure within a PUD which is
subject to design review approval under this title, including subsequent
amendments thereto, and shall comply therewith. Single family residences shall
comply with the requirements of subsection 10-24-4A21 of this chapter. All PUD
subdivision plats shall contain a plat note stating design review approval
required.
   H.   General Permit Provisions: A PUD permit shall be issued in writing. The
issuance shall not be considered a binding precedent for the issuance of other
PUD permits or conditional use permits. A PUD permit is not transferable from
one parcel of land to another.
   I.   Fee Schedules: The Council by resolution shall establish, and may from
time to time amend, a schedule of fees to be paid by each applicant for
processing a PUD application. Said fees shall be in amounts reasonably
calculated to reflect the cost of administering and regulating this chapter and
the review and processing of said applications and appeals.
   J.   Subsequent Subdivision Plat Approvals: At the time of filing of the PUD
application, an applicant may file preliminary subdivision applications for
preliminary plat approval for resubdivision of the large block(s) which will be
the first phase of the project. Such preliminary plat application shall be
processed at the same time as the PUD application. After issuance of a PUD
permit and recordation of the final PUD large block subdivision plat, the
applicant shall file a preliminary plat and final plat for each phase of the
PUD in conformance with the approved PUD permit and development plan pursuant
to the Bellevue subdivision ordinance and other applicable ordinances.
Subsequent subdivision plats shall be subject to the ordinances in effect at
the time the application therefor is filed with the City.
   K.   Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period: A PUD permit shall expire
and be null and void for any of the following:
      1.   Upon receiving a PUD conditional use permit, an applicant shall have
one year or such other time (longer or shorter) as the Council deems
appropriate from the date of issuance to record in Office of the Blaine County
Recorder the final large block PUD subdivision plat or to begin construction of
structures within the PUD, whichever is in accordance with the construction
schedule. Failure to do so within said time period shall cause the PUD
conditional use permit to be null and void ab initio.
      2.   For good cause shown by the applicant in writing filed with the
Administrator prior to the expiration of such one year period, the Council,
without a public hearing, may grant an extension of the time limitations set
forth in subsection K1 of this section, or may grant an extension of the time
limits imposed by the development schedule.
      3.   If a PUD permit application does not receive final approval from the
Common Council within eighteen (18) months of the date of its filing, it and
all applications filed concurrently therewith shall be deemed denied. An
applicant may request to the Council for a reasonable extension of this time
period for final action. Such a request shall be submitted in writing to the
City Clerk prior to the expiration of the initial eighteen (18) month period.
   L.   Amendments To PUD Permit, Conditional Permit Or Development Plan: The
PUD permit holder may make application for an amendment to the PUD permit,
conditional use permit for the PUD or the PUD development plan. All such
requests shall be in writing and supported by such information, plans, plats
and other documentation as reasonably required by the Administrator. Minor
changes in the PUD Development Plan may be approved by the Administrator. Minor
changes shall be limited to changes that: 1) do not require changes to the
approved PUD large block plat, 2) do not increase dwelling unit density or
change building type or General Design Standards, 3) are consistent with any
written agreement between the applicant and the City, and 4) do not reduce any
public or private active recreational use or amenity. If the Administrator
determines that the proposed amendment represents a significant change to the
PUD, the Council shall consider the request as an amendment to the PUD permit
under the same procedures as required for issuance of the original PUD permit
set forth in this chapter. Minor changes in the location, siting, or design of
buildings and structures may be authorized by the Administrator. All amendments
and modifications shall comply with the ordinances of the City in effect at the
time such amendment or modification is granted.
   M.   Revocation: Failure to comply with any condition or term of the PUD
permit or any permit concurrently granted therewith shall cause such permit to
be void ab initio. The Council may revoke a PUD permit for any violation of
this chapter or violation of the conditions of the permit. If the Council finds
that probable cause exists for revocation of the permit, written notice thereof
shall be provided the permittee. A PUD conditional use permit may be revoked at
any time for violation of the permit or any condition thereof by motion of the
Council after a due process hearing upon a minimum of thirty (30) days' written
notice to the holder of the PUD permit ("permittee"). The permittee shall have
the right to be represented by legal counsel and to present evidence on the
permittee's behalf. The Council shall enter its decision in the form of written
findings of fact and conclusions of law.
   N.   Appeals: The decision of the Administrator and of the commission are
subject to appeals in the manner and within the time limits as set forth in
section
10-3-3 of this title, hereby adopted by reference, except as follows:
      1.   Time For Filing Appeal: The written notice of appeal shall be filed
with the City Clerk before five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the twentieth (20th)
calendar day after the order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Administrator has been made or after written findings of fact and decision have
been approved and signed by the commission, whichever is applicable. The
failure to physically file a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within the
time limits prescribed by this section shall be jurisdictional and shall cause
automatic dismissal of such appeal.
      2.   Notice Of Appeal - Form And Contents: The notice of appeal shall be
in writing and in such form as shall be available from the Office of the
Administrator, which shall require to be set forth with specificity all basis
for appeal, including the particulars regarding any claimed error or abuse of
discretion.
      3.   Fee For Appeals: In addition to other required fees with regard to
an appeal, a fee equal to the expense of preparing the transcript of the
proceedings and giving notice as required by this chapter shall be paid by the
applicant to the City within two (2) days, after receipt of notice of the
amount thereof by the applicant from the Administrator. In the event the fee is
not paid as required, the appeal shall not be deemed not to have been timely
filed. (Ord. 2006-15, 8-10-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in IC § 67-6521, and subsequent amendments.
10-24-6: PENALTIES:
A. Penalties And Enforcement: The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced
in the following manner: (Ord. 2006-15, 8-10-2006)
1. A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that such a violation continues shall constitute a
separate criminal offense. Each landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder or other
person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation is
guilty of such a violation. (Ord. 2006-15, 8-10-2006; amd. 2018 Code)
2. In addition to the criminal sanctions, whenever it appears that any person
has engaged or is about to engage in any act or practice violating any
provision of this chapter or of the PUD permit or the conditional use permit
granted for the PUD or any other permit issued with regard to the PUD, the City
may institute a civil action to enforce compliance with this chapter. (Ord.
2006-15, 8-10-2006)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purposes
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Compliance With Provisions
11-1-5: Interpretation
11-1-6: Administrative And Enforcement Officials
11-1-7: Final Plat Approval Required
11-1-8: Time Constraints
11-1-9: Fees And Costs
11-1-10: Criminal Penalties; Civil Enforcement
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the BELLEVUE SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-1-2: PURPOSES:
The general purpose of this title is to protect and promote the public health,
safety, convenience, and welfare by establishing regulations and a process of
review for all proposed subdivisions of land. This title establishes standards
for land subdivision in order to accomplish the following:
   A.   To promote orderly, harmonious, and integrated development of land;
   B.   To provide safe, adequate, and efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic systems and circulations;
   C.   To provide adequate all-weather ingress and egress to subdivisions and
lots therein;
   D.   To prevent overcrowding of land and congestions on streets and
highways;
   E.   To provide for adequate air, light, solar access, privacy, and open
space;
   F.   To provide for adequate fire protection;
   G.   To prevent inadequate or inappropriate provision of water, sewer,
streets and pedestrian easements and public expenditures to provide such
improvements;
   H.   To protect and conserve wildlife, streams, natural topography, and
other desirable natural features by providing for maximum retention of natural
topographic features and qualities such as, but not limited to, skyline and
ridge tops, knoll ridges, established trees and shrub masses, topsoil,
streambeds and stream banks, drainage swales, and preventing damage to the
natural environment or scenic beauty;
   I.   To safeguard and enhance the character, appearance, and economic
stability of the community;
   J.   To provide adequate and uniform monumenting of land subdivisions and
promote accurate legal descriptions;
   K.   To protect the economic base of the community, including property
values;
   L.   To provide access to public lands and waters;
   M.   To ensure the provision and construction of adequate improvements
including, but not limited to, water, sewer, and other utilities, streets,
bridges, drainage, street lighting, and easements;
   N.   To encourage and promote energy conservation and alternative energy
sources as well as other advanced building technology;
   O.   To ensure conformance of proposed subdivisions with the above stated
purposes and to ensure design conformance with the standards and purposes of
this title and all other Municipal ordinances relating thereto, including
subsequent amendments. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
The regulations and procedures as set forth in this title shall apply to each
and every subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the City and all
lands within one mile of said corporate limits, or approved zone of impact, and
all jurisdictional areas of the City presently existing or hereafter adopted.
(Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachments of reasonable
conditions thereto is a proper exercise of valid police power granted to the
City by article XII, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution. The subdivider has
the duty of compliance with reasonable conditions laid down by the Council and
commission for design, dedication, improvement, and restrictive use of land so
as to conform with the physical and economic development of the City and the
safety and general welfare of future plot owners in the subdivision and the
public at large.
   B.   All proposed subdivisions of land shall comply with the regulations of
this title.
   C.   There shall be compliance with the regulations and procedures contained
in this title prior to any of the following:
      1.   The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots,
or parcels for transfer of ownership, building development, leasing, or
encumbering with mortgage or deed of trust;
      2.   The establishment of a condominium or townhouse, as herein defined;
      3.   The enlargement of Municipal streets, facilities, and easements;
      4.   The acquisition of collector or arterial street rights-of-way by any
public agency in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan;
      5.   Any alteration, modification, change, addition to or deletion from
any plat of record, including boundary shifts and/or removal of lot lines
between existing platted or unplatted lots or parcels of land. (Ord. 91-01, 12-
2016)
   D.   Denial of a subdivision permit or approval of a subdivision permit with
conditions unacceptable to the landowner may be subject to the regulatory
taking analysis provided for by section 67-8003, Idaho Code. (2018 Code)
11-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   The regulations contained in this title are in addition to all other
regulations, and where at variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances, or
resolutions of the City, or any other governmental body having jurisdiction
thereover, the more restrictive requirement shall apply. Furthermore, where
appropriate for the protection of the public health, safety, convenience or
welfare, more stringent standards may be imposed by the commission or Council.
   B.   If any section, paragraph, sentence, or provision hereof, or the
application thereof to any particular circumstance, shall be held invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision(s) shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which shall continue in
force and effect and be applicable to all circumstances to which they may
validly apply. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-1-6: ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the Council, an
Administrator to receive and process all subdivision applications and make
recommendations to the commission and the Council with regard thereto. The
Administrator shall serve at the will of the Council. If no Administrator
exists, then the commission shall act as the Administrator.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the Administrator and building inspector to
investigate compliance with these regulations and to bring to the attention of
the City Council and the City Attorney any violations of this title. (Ord. 91-
01, 12-2016)
11-1-7: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   No owner, or agent of the owner, shall transfer, sell, encumber by
mortgage or deed of trust, or offer to sell any portion of an unsubdivided
parcel of real property before final plat thereof has been approved by the
Council and filed with the Office of the Blaine County Recorder as required by
law.
   B.   The subdivision of any lot or of any parcel of land by the use of a
meets and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer, encumbrance by
mortgage or deed of trust, or lease, shall not be permitted without filing of a
final plat as herein required. All such subdivisions of land shall not be
recognized by the City nor shall building permits be issued for any
improvements thereon until such subdivisions have received final plat approval
and met all requirements of this title. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-1-8: TIME CONSTRAINTS:
   A.   The commission shall have sixty (60) days to consider all applications
made pursuant to this title and to make its recommendations with regard
thereto. Said sixty (60) day period shall commence upon the first meeting at
which said commission considers such an application. If no recommendation is
made within said period, the application shall be placed upon the appropriate
agenda without recommendation.
   B.   The Council shall have ninety (90) days to examine and consider all
applications made pursuant to this title and make its finding(s) and/or
decision(s) with regard thereto.
   C.   The time periods set forth in this section may be extended for a
reasonable period of time by the commission or Council upon a finding that due
to the complexity of an application, or changes made in an application during
the review process, additional time to examine or consider same is reasonably
required. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-1-9: FEES AND COSTS:
The subdivider shall pay to the City by depositing with the City Treasurer
certain fees and costs. There shall be a subdivision application fee. Said fee
shall be set by resolution of City Council. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016; amd. 2018
Code)
11-1-10: CRIMINAL PENALTIES; CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalties: Any person, firm, association, or corporation that fails to
comply with or violates any of the regulations of this title shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that said violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings at law or
inequity may be instituted by the City Attorney to prevent or rectify illegal
subdivisions, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or abate any violation,
or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises. These
remedies shall be accumulative and in addition to the penalties described in
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction; Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
For interpretation of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular; the word "shall" is always mandatory and the word "may"
indicates the use of discretion in making the decision.
AGRICULTURE USE: The growing of timber crops, including grazing, horticulture,
floriculture, nurseries, and fruit trees, together with necessary accessory and
secondary uses for processing, packing, treating, or storage, and shall not
include feedlots, slaughterhouses, rendering plants or sawmills.
ALLEY: A minor public way providing secondary access to the back or the side or
property otherwise abutting a street.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The Blaine County Board of County Commissioners.
BUILDING: Any structure, either permanent or temporary, fixed or placed upon
land for housing or supporting any use or occupancy.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: The site for location of a structure delineated on a
preliminary plat and final plat within which the entire building or other
structures must be constructed.
CLERK: The Bellevue City Clerk.
COMMISSION: The Bellevue Planning and Zoning Commission.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The officially adopted Comprehensive Plan of the City of
Bellevue, Idaho.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or any combination
thereof, together with a separate estate in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property, or any combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Bellevue, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER: The Blaine County Recorder, Hailey, Idaho.
COVENANTS, PRIVATE: A written promise, covenant, restriction, or rule imposed
upon land by the property owners or land developers which are private in nature
and enforced accordingly. Such covenants do not replace or impair the validity
of the restrictions or regulations imposed by this title or any other
applicable ordinance of the City of Bellevue or government entity having
jurisdiction thereover.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the Council as a public
dedication by ordinance, resolution, or approval and acceptance thereof on a
final plat.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A master plan for development of a phased project
establishing location of required improvements and all existing and proposed
structures, together with a schedule for development thereof.
DRIVEWAY: A nondedicated vehicular access constructed on private property which
provides access to not more than four (4) dwelling units and is constructed in
conformance with street standards of the City of Bellevue, Idaho; except, the
minimum width may be not less than sixteen feet (16'), and the surface may be
gravel.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms, including a bathroom and single kitchen,
designed for or occupied as a unit by a person or family for living purposes
and located in a one-family, duplex, or multiple-family dwelling.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to a specific person(s) or the public
right to use land for specific purpose(s). Also, such a right acquired by
prescription.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
stream, river, lake or other body of water which is subject to the hazards and
inundation of a 100-year frequency, as identified and defined in the Flood
Insurance Study and Flood Boundary and Floodway Map prepared by the Federal
Insurance Administration of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in conjunction with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1'), as
identified and defined in the Flood Insurance Study and Flood Boundary and
Floodway Map prepared by the Federal Insurance Administration of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development in conjunction with the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers. No building construction shall be permitted in the
floodway.
ENGINEER: An officially licensed and registered engineer by the State of Idaho.
ENGINEER, CITY: A representative of the City Community Development Department
authorized to check plats and provide on site inspections to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this title.
HIGHWAY: A street designed or designated as a highway by the State or Federal
agency responsible therefor.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or construction associated with the
construction or installation of streets, easements, drainage facilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, water system, sewage system, storm sewers, gas, electric,
or telephone lines, lot pin monuments and other such items associated with the
subdivision and/or development of land, including grading, excavation, or fill
of land.
IMPROVEMENTS, REQUIRED: Those subdivision improvements required to be
constructed after preliminary plat approval and prior to final plat approval by
the Council.
LOT: The parcel, plot, tract, or other area of real property intended for sale,
transfer, lease, or encumbrance.
LOT AREA: The area within the boundaries of a lot, exclusive of any of the area
contained within a public or private street, alley, fire lane, or private
driveway easement; also, exclusive of any narrow strip of land connecting a lot
setback from any public street for the purpose of providing driveway access
with that street.
LOT, BUILDABLE: A lot of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage, and area and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required. Structures shall only be built upon buildable lots.
MOBILE HOME OR TRAILER: Any vehicle or structure constructed in such a manner
that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways and
streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motor power, and which may be
moved in substantially one section into the City.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation holding fee simple title evidenced by a deed recorded in the Office
of the Blaine County Recorder.
PERFORMANCE BOND: Either the amount of money or, upon approval of the City
Council, other negotiable security deposited by the subdivider with the City
Clerk, or a bond executed by a qualified surety company, registered to do
business in the State of Idaho, which guarantees that the subdivider will
perform all actions and install all required improvements or his surety will
pay the costs thereof and damages up to a limit of the amount of bond or
security deposited. No personal checks shall be allowed as performance bonds.
PHASED DEVELOPMENT: Development of a parcel of land in stages either as a
series of subdivisions or as a single parcel with construction of buildings
and/or improvements over a series of years.
PLANTING STRIP: A strip of land within a subdivision not less than ten feet
(10') in width across which there is no driveway, street, or other access,
unless approved by the Common Council, and which is devoted exclusively to
landscaping, primarily to trees of not less than five feet (5') in height. The
primary purpose of planting strips is screening of streets, highways, adjacent
incompatible land uses, and off street parking areas.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of a subdivision, or dedication, and in conformance with the
approved preliminary plat, and prepared in accordance with this title and Idaho
Code title 50, chapter 13, as amended or subsequently codified.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat prepared in conformance with this title
submitted together with such other documentation as required by this title.
PLAT, RECORDED: A final plat which has been accepted by the Council and filed
with the Blaine County Recorder.
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE: Notice of a public hearing before the Council or
commission, published in the official newspaper of the City of Bellevue, Idaho,
at least fifteen (15) days prior to the meeting. Furthermore, all property
owners within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property shall be
notified by first class mail. Such written notification shall be deemed
sufficient if deposited in the mail to all property owners according to the
records of the Bellevue City Clerk at least fifteen (15) days prior to said
meeting and public hearing. Clerical omission of the names of property owners
shall not affect the sufficiency of notice as herein set forth. The notice
shall contain a description of the size and location of the subject property
and shall inform the reader of the time and place of the meeting at which the
public hearing will be held.
READJUSTMENT OF LOT LINES: A change or modification of the boundary lines
between existing lots or parcels of land or between dwelling units which does
not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of such
lots below the minimum zoning requirements and which does not create additional
lots or dwelling units. Readjustment of lot lines is intended to include other
minor changes to a subdivision, condominium or townhouse plat such as, but not
limited to, notation changes, boundary shifts and removal of lot line(s), each
of which does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback
lines of each lot below the minimum zoning requirements nor create additional
lots or dwelling units.
SIDEWALK: A pathway for non-motorized vehicles, normally designated for
pedestrians and which is separated from motorized vehicle travel lanes (e.g. by
curb, landscaping, etc.)
SOLAR ACCESS: Unobstructed access to direct sunlight upon land or a building.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: Specifications for design and construction of
improvements as specified in this title or other ordinances or resolutions of
the City of Bellevue or by any other governmental entity having jurisdiction
thereover, including subsequent amendments or codifications.
STATE: State of Idaho.
STREET: A public right-of-way, which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted.
The term street also includes the terms, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road,
avenue, boulevard, lane, place, and all such terms, except driveway, as herein
defined.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or
heavy traffic, connecting major districts of the City.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from
residential streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A dead-end street provided with turnaround space at its
terminus.
STREET, DEAD-END: A street connected to another street at one end only and not
having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
STREET, FRONTAGE: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street, which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
STREET, LOOP: A residential street with both terminal points on the same street
of origin.
STREET, PARTIAL: A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land
where remaining right-of-way widths can be obtained from adjacent properties
where said properties are subdivided.
STREET, PRIVATE: A street which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
more than four (4) dwelling units and constructed to standard street
specifications, however, not accepted for a dedication or maintenance by the
City.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street, which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust, or any other legal entity that files application and
initiated proceedings for subdivision of land in accordance with provisions of
this title. If the subdivider is not the owner of the property, he shall be the
agent of the owner as evidenced by a recorded power of attorney for said
purpose.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more tracts,
lots, or parcels for transfer of ownership, building development, leasing, or
encumbering with mortgage or deed of trust.
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT: A planned project of two (2) or more townhouse units
that may be constructed as single building(s) containing two (2) or more
townhouse units erected generally in a row, each unit being separated from the
adjoining unit or units by a one hour fire resistant party wall or wall
extending from the basement floor to the roof along the dividing townhouse
sublot line, each unit having its own access to the outside, and no unit
located over another unit in part or in whole; and/or may be constructed as
single buildings containing single townhouse units, provided the developments
shall be platted under the procedures contained in this title in effect and
shall be required to obtain design review approval prior to building permit
issuance.
TOWNHOUSE SUBLOTS: The lots resulting from platting a townhouse development.
Townhouse sublots shall have a minimum area equal to that of the perimeter of
each individual townhouse unit measured at the foundation whether located
independently or within a building containing two (2) or more townhouse units
in a townhouse development. Said sublots shall not be buildable for structures
other than a "townhouse unit" as defined herein. Platting of sublots shall
follow the procedures set forth in this title and other applicable codes in
effect. Detached garages may be allowed in a townhouse development and may be
platted on separate sublots; provided, that the ownership of said detached
garage is tied to specific townhouse units on the townhouse plat and in any
owner's documents, and that the detached garage(s) may not be sold and/or owned
separate from any dwelling unit(s) within the townhouse development.
TOWNHOUSE UNIT: One or more rooms, including a bathroom and a single kitchen,
designed for or occupied as a unit by one family for living and cooking
purposes, located in a townhouse development on a platted townhouse sublot.
TWENTY FIVE PERCENT (25%) GRADE: One foot (1') change in elevation for every
four feet (4') of land measured horizontally.
USABLE OPEN SPACE: Shall not include the area encompassed by streets, parking
areas, slopes over twenty five percent (25%), or areas included within normally
required stream building setbacks unless said area is included within the
common area or dedicated to the public.
UTILITIES: Installations for providing services to and used by the public,
e.g., water, sewer, electricity, gas, television cable, and similar facilities.
VICINITY MAP: A small map showing the location of a tract of land in relation
to the City, including existing major streets and highways and surrounding
subdivision(s) or large parcels of land.
WAIVER: Modification of a relevant provision and regulation of this title not
contrary to public interest or public health, safety, or welfare, and due to
physical characteristics of the particular parcel of land and not the result of
actions of the subdivider where literal enforcement of this title would result
in undue hardship. The granting of waiver(s) shall be upon written application,
and the granting thereof rests with the sound discretion of the commission and
Council, on a case by case basis.
WATERCOURSE: A natural depression or channel which carries or gives direction
to a current of water any time of the year. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016; amd. Ord.
2021-07, 4-26-2021)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURES AND PLAT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Administration Of Provisions
11-3-2: Plat Approval Required
11-3-3: Preliminary Plat
11-3-4: Final Plat
11-3-5: Combined Preliminary And Final Plat Subdivision Process
11-3-1: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The Administrator shall have the duty of administering the regulations
contained in this title, and shall prepare and require the use of such forms as
are necessary for the reasonable administration of these regulations. (Ord. 91-
01, 12-2016)
11-3-2: PLAT APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any persons desiring to subdivide or resubdivide land shall submit an
application to the Administrator. No final plat shall be filed with the County
Recorder until the same has been acted upon by the commission and approved by
the Council as a preliminary plat and as a final plat. No lots or parcels of
land described by meets and bounds or otherwise shall be sold or offered for
sale until a final plat thereof has been recorded in the Office of the Blaine
County Recorder. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application For Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Filing Application: The subdivider shall file with the Administrator
copies of the completed subdivision application form and preliminary plat data
as required by this title.
      2.   Certification By Administrator: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat
application and data, the Administrator shall certify the application as
complete and affix the date of acceptance thereon. Thereafter, the
Administrator shall place said preliminary plat on the commission agenda for
consideration at a regular meeting of the commission.
      3.   Review By And Recommendations Of Departments And Agencies: After
certification of a preliminary plat application, the Administrator shall
transmit one copy of the application and preliminary plat to all City
departments and to such other agencies as have jurisdiction over or interest in
the proposed subdivision for recommendation and review. Other agencies to which
preliminary plats may be referred include South Central Public Health District,
Idaho Utilities Commission, commissions of other governing bodies having joint
jurisdiction, appropriate utility companies, Blaine Soil Conservation District,
State Highway Department, and such other departments or agencies as the
Administrator deems necessary in order to carry out the full extent of this
title.
      4.   Review By Administrator: The Administrator shall review the
preliminary plat application and data as well as the recommendations received
from the various departments and agencies to ensure that said application and
plat are in conformance with all applicable rules and regulations. The
Administrator shall report to the commission.
   B.   Contents Of Plat: The preliminary plat, together with all application
forms, fees, title insurance reports, deeds, maps, and other documents and
information reasonably required by the Administrator, shall constitute a
complete subdivision application. The preliminary plat shall be drawn to scale
of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall show
the following:
      1.   The scale, north point and date.
      2.   The name of the proposed subdivision, which shall not be the same or
confused with the name of any other subdivision in Blaine County.
      3.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider, and the
engineer, surveyor, or other person preparing the plat.
      4.   Legal description of the area platted.
      5.   The names of all adjacent subdivisions, and the intersection
boundary lines of adjoining subdivisions and parcels or property, together with
a complete list of the owners of record of all property within three hundred
feet (300') of the exterior boundary lines of the property.
      6.   A contour map of the subdivision with contour lines having a maximum
interval of five feet (5') to show the configuration of the land based upon the
U.S. Geodetic Survey data, and other data approved by the City Engineer.
      7.   The scaled location of existing buildings, water bodies and
watercourses and location of the adjoining or immediately adjacent dedicated
streets, roadways, and easements, public and private.
      8.   Boundary description and the area of the tract.
      9.   Existing zoning of the tract.
      10.   The proposed location of street rights-of-way, lots and lot lines,
and easements, including all approximate dimensions and including all proposed
lot and block numbering and proposed street names.
      11.   The location, approximate size, and proposed use of all land
intended to be dedicated for public use or for common use of all future
property owners within the proposed subdivision.
      12.   The location, size, and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water
mains, culverts, and other surface or subsurface structures existing within or
immediately adjacent to the proposed sanitary or storm sewers, water mains, and
storage facilities, street improvements, street lighting, curbs and gutters,
and all proposed utilities.
      13.   The direction of drainage flow and approximate grade of all
streets.
      14.   The location of all drainage canals and structures, the proposed
method of disposing of runoff water, and the location and size of all drainage
easements relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the
proposed plat.
      15.   All percolation tests and/or exploratory pit excavations required
by State health authorities.
      16.   A copy of the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and
Bylaws of the Homeowners' Association and/or condominium declarations to be
filed with the final plat of the subdivision.
      17.   Vicinity map drawn to approximate scale showing the location of the
proposed subdivision in reference to existing and/or proposed arterial and
collector streets.
      18.   The boundaries of the floodplain, floodway, and Avalanche Zoning
District shall be clearly delineated and marked on the preliminary plat.
      19.   Building envelopes shall be shown on each lot all or part of which
is within a floodplain, floodway, or Avalanche Zone, or any lot that is
adjacent to the Big Wood River or any tributary; or any lot, a portion of which
has a slope of twenty five percent (25%) or greater; or upon any lot which will
be created adjacent to the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
      20.   Lot area of each lot.
      21.   Existing mature trees and established shrub masses.
      22.   A current title report shall be provided at the time that the
preliminary plat is filed with the Administrator, together with a copy of the
owner's recorded deed to said property.
      23.   Three (3) copies of the entire preliminary plat shall be filed with
the Administrator.
   C.   Commission Action:
      1.   Consideration by the commission of a subdivision application and
data shall take place at a regularly scheduled commission meeting, unless a
special meeting of the commission is requested by the subdivider and granted by
the commission. At that meeting, the commission shall do the following:
         a.   Hold a duly noticed public hearing on all subdivision
applications.
         b.   After the public hearing, review the preliminary plat and
supporting data, testimony of the subdivider, and the public, and approve,
approve with specific conditions, or deny the preliminary plat. If the
preliminary plat is denied, the reasons for such action shall be stated in
writing, and a copy signed by the Administrator attached to one copy of the
preliminary plat shall be returned to the applicant.
      2.   Upon approval of a preliminary plat, the Administrator shall
transmit to the Council the subdivision application, preliminary plat, any
other data and a copy of the commission findings and report.
   D.   Council Action: Submission of a preliminary plat upon approval by the
commission to the Council shall be mandatory. The Council shall consider the
subdivision application at a duly noticed public hearing. The subdivider, at
his request, shall be entitled to at least one continuance. The Council shall
consider the preliminary plat, subdivision application and data, the report and
recommendations of the commission, and shall hear testimony of the subdivider
and any witnesses in his behalf, and testimony of representatives of the
commission, and any witnesses including interested citizens. Upon conclusion of
its consideration of the preliminary plat, the Council shall approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the plat and make findings consistent with law
and this title. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Council, the
subdivider shall prepare required improvement design plans in accordance with
this title and additional condition(s) imposed by the Council. Upon approval of
the improvement designs by the City Engineer, the subdivider shall commence
construction on the required improvements. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Procedure: After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
cause the subdivision to be surveyed and a final plat to be prepared in
conformance with the preliminary plat as approved, and Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 13. Upon completion of said final plat, the subdivider shall file same,
together with the final plat application and all other documents required, with
the Administrator including eight (8) copies thereof. Then the Administrator
shall place said final plat on the commission's meeting agenda.
   If the final plat conforms to all requirements of this title, other
applicable ordinances and resolutions of the City, all conditions placed upon
the preliminary plat by the Council, and all requirements of Idaho Code, the
Commission shall recommend approval of said final plat to the Council. In the
event that the Commission finds the final plat does not comply with this title
or other applicable ordinances and resolutions of the City or does not
substantially conform to the approved preliminary plat, the Commission shall
deny said final plat.
   When submitted to the Administrator, the final plat shall bear all required
certificates. Thereafter, the Administrator shall place the final plat upon the
Council’s meeting agenda for a duly noticed public hearing.
   B.   Contents Of Plat: The final plat shall be drawn at such a scale and
shall be in conformance with the provisions of Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13.
The reverse side of said sheet shall not be used for any portion of the
drawing. The contents of the final plat shall include all items required under
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and shall also include:
      1.   Point of beginning of subdivision description tied to at least two
(2) government survey corners, or in lieu of government survey corners, to
monuments recognized by the City Engineer.
      2.   Location and description of monuments.
      3.   Tract boundary lines, property lines, lot lines, street right- of-
way lines and centerlines, building envelopes as required on the preliminary
plat, lot area of each lot, boundaries of the floodplain and floodway and the
Avalanche District, all with bearings of accurate dimensions in feet and
decimals thereof, in degrees and minutes, and radii, arcs, central angles,
tangents, and chord lengths of all curves to the above accuracy.
      4.   Names and locations of all adjoining subdivisions.
      5.   Name and right-of-way width of each street and other public rights-
of-way.
      6.   Location, dimension, and purpose of all easements, public and
private.
      7.   The lots numbered consecutively throughout each block.
      8.   The outline of any property other than a street, alley, or easement
which is offered for dedication to public use, fully dimensioned by distances
and bearings with the area marked "Dedicated to the City of Bellevue for Public
Use", together with any other descriptive language with regard to the precise
nature of the use of the land so dedicated.
      9.   The title shall include the name of the subdivision, the name of the
City, if appropriate, County and State, and the location and description of the
subdivision referenced to section, township, and range.
      10.   Scale, north arrow, and date.
      11.   Location, width and names of all existing or dedicated streets and
other public ways within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
      12.   A provision in the owner's certificate referencing the County
Recorder's instrument number where the condominium declaration(s) and/or
Articles of Incorporation of the Homeowners' Association governing the
subdivision are recorded.
      13.   Certificate by a registered engineer or surveyor preparing the map
certifying to the accuracy of surveying plat.
      14.   A current title report of all property contained within the plat.
      15.   Certification of the owner(s) of record and all holders of security
interest(s) of record with regard to said property.
      16.   Certification and signature of the engineer (surveyor) verifying
that the subdivision and design standards meet all City requirements.
      17.   Certification and signature of the City Engineer verifying that the
subdivision and design standards meet all City requirements.
      18.   Certification and signature of the City Clerk verifying that the
subdivision has been approved by the Council.
      19.   Notation of any additional restrictions imposed by the Council on
the development of said subdivision to provide for the public health, safety,
and welfare.
      20.   A copy of the recorded final plat.
      21.   Two (2) sets of as built drawings, certified as complete by the
project engineer, of all public streets, the public water system, the public
sewer system and all utilities.
   C.   Acceptance Of Dedications: Approval of the final plat by the Council
shall constitute acceptance of all dedications for public streets, rights-of-
way, easements, and other lands dedicated for public purpose or use as shown
thereon. As a condition precedent to the acceptance of any streets or required
improvements, the Council shall require that the subdivider install said
improvements in accordance with the City or other applicable construction
standards and that condition shall be noted on the final plat.
   D.   Time Limitations: The failure to obtain final plat approval by the
Council of an approved preliminary plat within one year after approval by the
Council shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and void.
The final plat shall be filed with the Blaine County Recorder within one year
after final plat approval by the Council. Failure to file said final plat
within that time shall cause all approvals of said final plat to be null and
void. No building permit shall be issued with regard to any parcel of land
within a proposed subdivision until the final plat has been recorded. A copy of
the final recorded plat shall be placed on file with the City. For good cause
shown, the deadlines in this section may be extended for up to twelve (12)
months. The Council shall hold a duly noticed public hearing prior to granting
said extension.
   E.   Copies Of Plat:
      1.   Three (3) copies of the final plat shall be filed with the
Administrator prior to being placed upon the commission's agenda. Three (3)
copies of the final plat as approved by the Council and signed by the City
Clerk shall be filed with the Administrator and retained by the City.
      2.   The final plat shall show a minimum of two (2) Blaine County survey
control monuments with ties to the property and an inverse between the two (2)
monuments. The survey control monuments shall be clearly identified on the face
of the plat.
      3.   In addition to all other copies of the final plat required
hereunder, an electronic CAD file shall be submitted to the Blaine County
Recorder's Office concurrent with the recording of the final plat containing
the following data:
         a.   The line work delineating all lots, parcels and roadways on a CAD
layer/level designated as "parcel";
         b.   Line work delineating all roadway centerlines on a CAD layer/
level designated as "road"; and
         c.   Line work that reflects the ties and inverses for the survey
control monuments shown on the face of the plat shall be shown on a CAD layer/
level designated as "control".
      4.   All information within the electronic file shall be CD oriented, and
scaled to grid per the Idaho State Plane Coordinate System, Central Zone, NA
D1983 (1992), U.S. Survey Feet, using the Blaine County Survey Control Network.
Electronic CAD files shall be submitted in a "dwg", "dgn" or "shp" format and
shall be submitted on a CD or a flash drive. When the endpoints of the lines
submitted are indicated as coincidental with another line, the CAD line
endpoints shall be separated by no greater than 0.0001 drawing units.
      5.   Any digital submittal will convey the rights to Blaine County, Idaho
(herein also referred to as "Blaine County") for use within its GIS, and
acceptance of digital data by Blaine County absolves the surveyor of any
liability related to the electronic submittal as set forth by Blaine County in
Blaine County resolution 2002-54.
      6.   The technical requirements of subsections E3, E4 and/or E5 of this
section may, from time to time, be amended by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 91-01, 12-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-04, 2-22-2021)
11-3-5: COMBINED PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT SUBDIVISION PROCESS:
A subdivision application may be processed as both a preliminary and final
subdivision if all of the following exist:
   A.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed four (4) lots (excluding
common lots), or a previous subdivision was approved on the subject property.
   B.   No new street dedication, excluding widening of an existing street, is
required.
   C.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as a
planned unit development.
   D.   All required information for both a preliminary and final subdivision
is complete.
   E.   An application and fees in accord with this title shall be submitted.
   F.   Public hearings shall be required for both the combined preliminary/
final subdivision before the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Council.
   G.   Contents of the preliminary/final subdivision application shall include
all items required in accordance with subsections 11-3-3B and 11-3-4B of this
chapter. A decision on a combined preliminary and final subdivision for a
parcel of land is made by the City Council based on the recommendations of the
Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Requirements
11-4-2: Improvement Plans
11-4-3: Performance Bond
11-4-4: As Built Drawings
11-4-5: Monuments
11-4-6: Lots
11-4-7: Blocks
11-4-8: Streets
11-4-9: Alleys
11-4-10: Easements
11-4-11: Sanitary Sewer Systems
11-4-12: Water Systems
11-4-13: Planting Strips
11-4-14: Cuts, Fills And Grading
11-4-15: Drainage
11-4-16: Utilities
11-4-17: Off Site Improvements
11-4-18: Sidewalk Improvements
11-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The improvements set forth in this chapter shall be shown on the preliminary
plat and installed prior to approval of the final plat. Construction design
plans thereof shall be submitted and approved by the City Engineer. All such
improvements shall be in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and constructed
in compliance with construction specifications adopted by the City. Existing
natural features which enhance the attractiveness of the subdivision and
community such as mature trees, watercourses, rock outcroppings, established
shrub masses, and historic areas shall be preserved through design of the
subdivision. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-2: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
Prior to approval of final plat by the commission, the subdivider shall file
two (2) copies with the City Engineer who shall approve construction plans for
all improvements required in the proposed subdivision. Said plans shall be
prepared by a civil engineer licensed in the State of Idaho. (Ord. 91-01, 12-
2016)
11-4-3: PERFORMANCE BOND:
Prior to final plat approval, the subdivider shall have previously constructed
all required improvements and secured a certificate of completion from the City
Engineer. However, in cases where the required improvements cannot be
constructed due to weather conditions or other factors beyond the control of
the subdivider, the City Council may accept in lieu of any or all of the
required improvements a performance bond filed with the City Clerk to insure
actual construction of the required improvements as submitted and approved.
Said performance bond shall be issued in an amount not less than one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the estimated costs of improvements as determined by
the City Engineer. In the event the improvements are not constructed within the
time allowed by the City Council (which shall be 1 year or less, depending upon
the individual circumstances), the Council may order the improvements installed
at the expense of the subdivider and the surety. In the event the cost of
installing the required improvements exceeds the amount of the bond, the
subdivider shall be liable to the City for the additional costs thereof. The
cost of installing required improvements that exceeds the amount of the
performance bond shall automatically become a lien upon any and all property
within the subdivision owned by the owner and/or subdivider. (Ord. 91-01, 12-
2016)
11-4-4: AS BUILT DRAWINGS:
Prior to acceptance by the City Council of any improvements installed by the
subdivider, two (2) sets of as built plans and specifications certified by the
subdivider's engineer shall be filed with the City Engineer. Within ten (10)
days after completion of improvements and submission of as built drawings, the
City Engineer shall certify the completion of the improvements and the
acceptance thereof, and shall submit a copy of said certification to the
Administrator and subdivider. If a performance bond has been filed, the
Administrator shall forward a copy of the certification to the City Clerk.
Thereafter, the City shall release the performance bond upon application by the
subdivider. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-5: MONUMENTS:
Following completion of construction of the required improvements and prior to
certification of completion by the City Engineer, certain land survey monuments
shall be reset or verified by the subdivider's engineer or surveyor to still be
in place. These monuments shall have the size, shape, and type of material as
shown on the subdivision plat. These monuments shall be located as follows:
   A.   All angle points in the exterior boundary of the plat.
   B.   All street intersections, points within and adjacent to the final plat.
   C.   All street corner lines ending at the boundary line of the final plat.
   D.   All angle points and points of curves on all streets.
   E.   The point of beginning of the subdivision plat descriptions. (Ord. 91-
01, 12-2016)
11-4-6: LOTS:
   A.   Lot size, width, depth, shape, orientation, and minimum building
setback lines shall be in compliance with the zoning district in which the
property is located; and compatible with the location of the subdivision and
the type of development; and preserve solar access to adjacent properties and
buildings.
   B.   Whenever a proposed subdivision contains lot(s) in whole or in part
within the floodplain, or which contain land with a slope in excess of twenty
five percent (25%) based upon natural contours, or create corner lots at the
intersection of two (2) or more streets, building envelopes shall be shown for
the lot(s) so affected on the preliminary and final plats. The building
envelopes shall be located in a manner designed to promote harmonious
development of structures, minimize congestion of structures, provide open
space and solar access for each lot and structure, and preserve hillside view
corridors. Also, building envelopes shall be located to promote access to the
lots and maintenance of public utilities, to minimize cut and fill for roads
and building foundations, and minimize adverse impact upon environment,
watercourses, and topographical features.
   C.   Corner lots shall contain a building envelope outside of a seventy five
foot (75') radius from the center point of the intersection of the streets
unless otherwise approved as defined in subsection 10-6-5C of this Code.
   D.   Side lot lines shall be within twenty degrees (20°) to a right angle or
radial line to the street line.
   E.   Double frontage lots shall not be created. A planting strip shall be
provided along the boundary line of lots adjacent to arterial streets or
incompatible zoning districts. Should a double frontage lot be created out of
necessity, then such lot shall be a reversed frontage lot.
   F.   Minimum lot sizes in all cases shall be reversed frontage lot(s).
   G.   Every lot in a subdivision shall have a minimum of twenty feet (20') of
frontage on a dedicated public or approved private street. (Ord. 91-01, 12-
2016)
11-4-7: BLOCKS:
The length, width, and shape of blocks within a proposed subdivision shall
conform to the following requirements:
   A.   No block shall be longer than one thousand feet (1,000') nor less than
four hundred feet (400') between the street intersections, and shall have
sufficient depth to provide for two (2) tiers of lots.
   B.   Blocks shall be laid out in such a manner as to comply with the lot
requirements.
   C.   The layout of blocks shall take into consideration the natural
topography of the subdivision and minimize cuts and fills for roads and
minimize adverse impact on the environment, watercourses, and topographical
features.
   D.   Corner lots shall contain a building envelope outside of a seventy five
foot (75') radius from the intersection of the streets. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-8: STREETS:
   A.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets put in the proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan
and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
topography, public convenience and safety, and the proposed uses of the land.
   B.   All streets shall be constructed to meet or exceed the criteria and
standards set forth in the City Standard Specifications for Streets and Water,
and all other applicable ordinances, resolutions, or regulations of the City,
or any other governmental entity having jurisdiction thereover, now existing or
hereafter adopted, amended or codified.
   C.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, railroad, or limited access highway right-of- way, the Council may
require a frontage street, planting strip, or similar design features.
   D.   Streets may be required to provide access to adjoining lands and
provide proper traffic circulation through existing or future neighborhoods.
   E.   Street grades shall not be less than three-tenths percent (0.3%) and
not more than seven-tenths percent (0.7%) so as to provide for adequate
drainage and snow plowing.
   F.   In general, partial dedications shall not be permitted. However, the
Council may accept a partial street dedication when such a street forms a
boundary of the proposed subdivision and is deemed necessary for the orderly
development of the neighborhood, and provided the Council finds it practical to
require the dedication of the remainder of the right-of-way when the adjoining
property is subdivided. When a partial street exists adjoining the proposed
subdivision, the remainder of the right- of-way shall be dedicated.
   G.   Dead-end streets shall be permitted as deemed appropriate by the
Council when providing for future connectivity to adjacent lands and are in
compliance with International Fire Codes regarding turnarounds.
   H.   A cul-de-sac or similar type street shall be permitted as deemed
appropriate by the Council which complies with International Fire Codes
regarding turnarounds.
   I.   Streets shall be planned to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles, but in no event at less than seventy degrees (70°).
   J.   Where any street deflects any angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a
connecting curve shall be required having a minimum centerline radius of three
hundred feet (300') for arterial and collector streets and one hundred twenty
five feet (125') for minor streets.
   K.   Streets with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty five
feet (125') shall be prohibited.
   L.   A tangent of at least one hundred feet (100') long shall be introduced
between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   M.   Proposed streets, which are continuations of existing streets, shall be
given the same names as the existing streets. All new street names shall not
duplicate or be confused with the names of existing streets within Blaine
County. The subdivider shall obtain approval of all street names within the
proposed subdivision from the commission before submitting same to the Council
for preliminary plat approval.
   N.   Street alignment design shall follow natural terrain contours to result
in safe streets, usable lots, and minimum cuts and fills.
   O.   Street patterns of residential areas shall be designed to create areas
free of through traffic but readily accessible to adjacent collector and
arterial streets.
   P.   Reserve planting strips controlling access to public streets shall be
permitted under conditions specified and shown on the final plat, and all
landscaping and irrigation systems shall be installed as required improvements
by the subdivider.
   Q.   In general, the centerline of streets shall coincide with the
centerline of the street right-of-way, and all crosswalk markings shall be
installed by the subdivider as a required improvement.
   R.   Street lighting may be required by the commission or Council, where
appropriate, and shall be installed by the subdivider as a requirement
improvement.
   S.   Private streets complying with the International Fire Codes shall be
allowed as deemed appropriate by the Council.
   T.   Street signs shall be installed by the subdivider as a required
improvement of a type and design approved by the Administrator and shall be
consistent with the type and design of existing street signs elsewhere in the
City.
   U.   Wherever a proposed subdivision requires construction of a new bridge,
or will create substantial additional traffic which will require construction
of a new bridge or improvement of an existing bridge, said construction or
improvement shall be a required improvement by the subdivider. Said
construction or improvement shall be in accordance with adopted standard
specifications therefor.
   V.   Sidewalks, curbs, and gutters may be a required improvement installed
by the subdivider.
   W.   Prior to final plat signature, the first chip sealing applied to new
dedicated streets and applicable private streets shall be completed by the
developer or bonded for by the developer for any subdivision, planned unit
development or condominium plat. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-9: ALLEYS:
Alleys shall be provided in commercial and light industrial zoning districts,
and may be required in residential districts. The width of an alley shall be
not less than twenty five feet (25'). Alley intersections and sharp changes in
alignment shall be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be provided to
permit safe vehicular movement. Dead-end alleys shall comply with the
International Fire Codes regarding turnaround requirements. Improvement of
alleys shall be done by the subdivider as a required improvement and in
conformance with design standards specified in subsection 11-4-8B of this
chapter. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-10: EASEMENTS:
Easements, as set forth hereinafter, shall be required for location of
utilities and other public services to provide adequate pedestrian circulation
and access to public waterways and lands:
   A.   A public utility easement at least ten feet (10') in width shall be
required within the street right-of-way boundaries of all streets.
   B.   Where a subdivision contains or borders on a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, an easement shall be required of sufficient width to contain
said watercourse and provide access for private maintenance and/or
reconstruction of said watercourse.
   C.   All subdivisions which border the Big Wood River or any tributary shall
dedicate a twenty foot (20') fisherman and unaltered riparian easement along
the river bank. Furthermore, the Council shall require in appropriate areas an
easement providing access through the subdivision to the bank as a sportsman's
access. These easement requirements are minimum standards, and in appropriate
cases where a subdivision abuts a portion of the river adjacent to an existing
pedestrian easement, the Council may require an extension of that easement
along the portion of the riverbank which runs through the proposed subdivision.
   D.   All subdivisions which border on the Big Wood River or any tributary
shall dedicate a one hundred foot (100') floodplain management easement upon
which no permanent structure shall be built in order to protect the natural
vegetation and wildlife along the riverbank and to protect structures from
damage or loss due to riverbank erosion.
   E.   All subdivisions through which appropriate access to public lands are
found to exist shall dedicate reasonable public access easements thereto as
part of the subdivision traffic circulation.
   F.   No ditch, pipe, or structure for irrigation water or irrigation
wastewater shall be constructed, rerouted, or changed in the course of planning
for or constructing required improvements within a proposed subdivision unless
same has first been approved in writing by the ditch company or property owner
holding the water rights thereto. A written copy of such approval shall be
filed as part of required improvement construction plans.
   G.   Nonvehicular transportation system easements including pedestrian
walkways, bike paths, equestrian paths, and similar easements shall be
dedicated by the subdivider to provide an adequate nonvehicular transportation
system throughout the City. Such improvements may be calculated towards
required park land dedication requirements as set forth in the adopted Bellevue
Parks Master Plan. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-11: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS:
Central sanitary sewer systems shall be installed in all subdivisions and
connected to the City sewage treatment system as a required improvement by the
subdivider. Construction plans and specifications for a central sanitary sewer
extension shall be prepared by the subdivider and approved by the City
Engineer, Council, and Idaho Health Department prior to final plat approval. In
the event that the sanitary sewage system of a subdivision cannot connect to
the existing public sewage system, alternative provisions for sewage disposal
in accordance with the requirements of the Idaho Department of Health and the
Council may be constructed on a temporary basis until such time as connection
to the public sewage system is possible. In considering such alternative
provisions, the Council may require an increase in the minimum lot size and may
impose any other reasonable requirements which it deems necessary to protect
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-12: WATER SYSTEMS:
A central domestic water distribution system shall be installed in all
subdivisions by the subdivider as a required improvement. The subdivider shall
also be required to locate and install an adequate number of fire hydrants
within the proposed subdivision according to specifications and requirements of
the City under the supervision of the City Fire Department and other regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction thereover. Furthermore, the central water system
shall have sufficient flow for domestic use and adequate fire flow. All such
water systems installed shall be looped extensions, and no dead-end systems
shall be permitted. All water systems shall be connected to the Municipal water
system and shall meet the standards of the following agencies: Idaho Department
of Public Health, Idaho Survey and Rating Bureau, District Sanitarian, Idaho
State Public Utilities Commission, Idaho Department of Reclamation, and all
requirements of the City. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-13: PLANTING STRIPS:
Planting strips shall be required improvements. When a predominantly
residential subdivision is proposed for land adjoining incompatible uses or
features such as highways, railroads, commercial or light industrial districts,
or off street parking areas, the subdivider shall provide planting strips to
screen the view of such incompatible features. The subdivider shall submit a
landscaping plan for said planting strip with the preliminary plat application,
and the landscaping shall be a required improvement. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-14: CUTS, FILLS AND GRADING:
Proposed subdivisions shall be carefully planned to be compatible with natural
topography, soil conditions, geology and hydrology of the site, as well as to
minimize cuts, fills, alterations of topography, streams, drainage channels,
and disruption of soils and vegetation. The design criteria shall include the
following:
   A.   A preliminary soils report prepared by a qualified engineer may be
required by the commission and/or Council as part of the preliminary plat
application.
   B.   A preliminary grading plan prepared by a civil engineer shall be
submitted as part of all preliminary plat applications. Said plan shall contain
the following information:
      1.   Proposed contours at a maximum of five foot (5') contour intervals.
      2.   Cut and fill banks in pad elevations.
      3.   Drainage patterns.
      4.   Areas where trees and/or natural vegetation will be preserved.
      5.   Location of all street and utility improvements including driveways
to building envelopes, and any other information which may be reasonably
required by the Administrator, commission, or Council to adequately review the
effect of the proposed improvements.
   C.   Grading shall be designed to blend with natural land forms and to
minimize the necessity of padding or terracing of building sites, excavation
for foundations, and minimize the necessity of cuts and fills for streets and
driveways.
   D.   Areas within a subdivision which are not well suited for development
because of existing soil conditions, steepness of slope, geology or hydrology
shall be allocated for open space for the benefit of future property owners
within the subdivision.
   E.   Where the existing soils and vegetation are disrupted by subdivision
development, provision shall be made by the subdivider for revegetation of
disturbed areas with perennial vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil upon
completion of the construction. Until such times as said revegetation has been
installed and established, the subdivider shall maintain and protect all
disturbed surfaces from erosion.
   F.   Where cuts, fills, or other excavations are necessary, the following
development standards shall apply:
      1.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing all organic material
detrimental to proper compaction for soil compatibility.
      2.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density as determined by AASHTO T99 (American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials) and ASTM D698 (American Society for
Testing and Materials).
      3.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two (2) horizontals to one
vertical. Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability.
      4.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than three (3) horizontal to one
vertical.
      5.   Toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property
boundaries a distance of three feet (3'), plus one-fifth (1/5) of the height of
the cut or the fill, but may not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet
(10'); tops and toes of cuts and fill slopes shall be set back from structures
at a distance of at least six feet (6'), plus one-fifth (1/5) of the height of
the cut or fill. Additional setback distances shall be provided as necessary to
accommodate drainage features and drainage structures. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-15: DRAINAGE:
   A.   The subdivider shall submit with the preliminary plat application such
map, profiles, and other data prepared by an engineer to indicate the proper
drainage of the surface water to natural drainage courses or storm drains,
existing or proposed.
   B.   The location and width of the natural drainage courses shall be shown
as an easement common to all owners within the subdivision and the City on the
preliminary and final plats.
   C.   All natural drainage courses shall be left undisturbed or be improved
in a manner that will increase the operating efficiency of the channel without
overloading its capacity.
   D.   An adequate storm and surface drainage system shall be a required
improvement in all subdivisions and shall be installed by the subdivider.
   E.   Culverts shall be required where all watercourses or drainage courses
intersect with streets, driveways, or improved public easements and shall
extend across and under the entire improved width thereof including shoulders.
(Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-16: UTILITIES:
In addition to the terms mentioned hereinabove, all utilities including, but
not limited to, electricity, natural gas, telephone, and cable services shall
be installed underground as a required improvement by the subdivider. Adequate
provision for expansion of such services within the subdivision or to adjacent
lands including installation of conduit pipe across and underneath streets
shall be installed by the subdivider prior to construction of street
improvements. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-4-17: OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
Where the off site impact of a proposed subdivision is found by the commission
or Council to create substantial additional traffic or other impacts,
improvements to alleviate such impacts may be required of the subdivider as a
condition of preliminary plat approval and prior to final plat approval
including, but not limited to, bridges, intersections, roads, traffic control
devices, water mains and facilities, and sewer mains and facilities. (Ord. 91-
01, 12-2016)
11-4-18: SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Sidewalks are required in all zoning districts, except as otherwise
provided herein.
   B.   The requirement for sidewalk may be waived if the proposed construction
project is less than five hundred (500) square feet.
   C.   The requirement for sidewalk and drainage improvements may be waived
for any remodel or addition to single-family dwelling and duplex projects
within the General Residential (GR) zone; sidewalk and drainage improvements
shall be required for a new principal building.
   D.   The City may approve and accept voluntary contributions in lieu of the
above-described improvements, which contributions must be segregated by the
City and not used for any purpose other than the provision of these
improvements. In order to determine the in-lieu amount, the applicant shall
provide the City with three (3) cost estimates for the sidewalk and drainage
improvements provided by a qualified contractor, plus associated engineering
costs, as approved by the City Engineer. The middle estimate shall be used in
calculating the in-lieu fee. Any approved in lieu contribution shall be paid
before final plat approval or the City issues a Certificate of Occupancy for a
principal building.
   E.   Sidewalk and drainage improvements shall be located and constructed
according to applicable City standards, except as otherwise provided herein.
   F.   In The B, LB, LI/MB And LI Zoning Districts, The Following Are
Required:
      1.   A minimum sidewalk width of eight feet (8').
      2.   Street trees with tree grates or a landscape buffer between the
sidewalk and curb determined to be adequate.
      3.   The developer or City may propose alternatives to either the
standard sidewalk location or configuration required, such as the addition of a
bike lane.
      4.   The Council or Commission shall ensure that the alternative
configuration or location shall not reduce the level of service or convenience
to either residents of the development or the public at large.
      5.   If an alternative location is approved, the cost of construction of
the required square footage of sidewalk and linear feet of drainage
improvements and the associated engineering costs, as approved by the City
Engineer, shall be paid by the applicant to the City before the City issues a
Certificate of Occupancy, unless otherwise allowed for in an agreement between
the City and the applicant. The City shall ensure construction of sidewalk and
drainage improvements occurs within two (2) years of the date the funds are
received from the applicant.
      6.   The length of sidewalk and drainage improvements constructed shall
be equal to the length of the subject property line(s) adjacent to any public
street or private street.
      7.   New sidewalks shall be planned to provide pedestrian connections to
any existing or future sidewalks adjacent to the side. In addition, sidewalks
shall be constructed to provide safe pedestrian access to and around a
building.
      8.   Sites located adjacent to public streets and private streets that
are not currently through streets, regardless of whether the street may provide
vehicular connection to future streets, shall provide sidewalks to facilitate
future pedestrian connections.
      9.   The requirements for sidewalk and drainage improvements are not
required for any lot line adjustment.
   G.   In The GR Zone, The Following Shall Be Required:
      1.   A minimum sidewalk width of five feet (5').
      2.   Street trees with tree grates or a landscape buffer between the
sidewalk and curb determined to be adequate. The developer shall choose
landscaping of a type and species that maintains the quality of the sidewalk.
   H.   The developer or City may propose alternatives to either the standard
sidewalk location or configuration required, such as the addition of a bike
lane.
      1.   The Council or Commission shall ensure that the alternative
configuration or location shall not reduce the level of service or convenience
to either residents of the development or the public at large.
      2.   If an alternative location is approved, the cost of construction of
the required square footage of sidewalk and linear feet of drainage
improvements and the associated engineering costs, as approved by the City
Engineer, shall be paid by the applicant to the City before the City issues a
Certificate of Occupancy, unless otherwise allowed for in an agreement between
the City and applicant. The City shall ensure construction of sidewalk and
drainage improvements occurs within two (2) years of the date the funds are
received from the applicant.
      3.   The length of sidewalk and drainage improvements constructed shall
be equal to the length of the subject property line(s) adjacent to any public
street or private street.
      4.   New sidewalks shall be planned to provide pedestrian connections to
any existing or future sidewalks adjacent to the site. In addition, sidewalks
shall be constructed to provide safe pedestrian access to and around a
building.
      5.   Sites located adjacent to public streets or private streets that are
not currently through streets, regardless of whether the street may provide a
vehicular connection to future streets, shall provide sidewalks to facilitate
future pedestrian connections.
      6.   The requirements for sidewalk and drainage improvements are not
required for any lot line adjustment. (Ord. 2021-07, 4-26-2021)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND PATHWAYS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: Definitions
11-5-3: Parks And Pathways Required
11-5-4: Parks Committee Powers
11-5-5: Contributions
11-5-6: Multiple Ownership
11-5-7: Minimum Required Improvements
11-5-8: Park Standards
11-5-9: Pathway Standards
11-5-10: Green Space Standards
11-5-11: Dedication And Maintenance
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for adequate parks and other
recreational opportunities and facilities for the people living and working
within as well as those visiting the City, in addition to the other purposes of
the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan, this title, the zoning ordinance and the
Bellevue Park Master Plan. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BELLEVUE PARKS COMMITTEE: The recommending body established in section
7-4-3 of this Code.
GREEN SPACE: Land dedicated or restricted as parks, pathways, connective
greenways, recreational assets and/or open space.
MASTER PLAN: The Bellevue Parks Master Plan, adopted by resolution on July 13,
2006, as may be amended from time to time.
PARK: A parcel of land dedicated to the City or privately owned and clearly
accessible to the public free of charge for nonexclusive recreation and/or
cultural use. A park is maintained for the primary purposes of diverse
recreational and social opportunities. A park may include one of the following:
Minipark: A parcel of land, between one-fourth (1/4) acre and one acre in size
that is privately owned and maintained unless otherwise allowed by the Council,
but that is used for nonexclusive public recreation and/or cultural purposes.
Neighborhood Park: A parcel of land generally between one and ten (10) acres in
size dedicated to the City for nonexclusive public recreation and/or cultural
use.
Park/Cultural Space: A parcel of land less than one-fourth (1/4) acre in size
and located in the B Business, LB/R Limited Business/Residential and T
Transitional Zoning Districts, that is privately owned and maintained but that
is used for nonexclusive public recreation and/or cultural purposes. A park/
cultural space may include courtyards, plazas, gardens, expanded sidewalks and
covered areas, provided access to the park/cultural space is available from a
public street or property and is normally open to the exterior (e.g., not
enclosed in a building).
PATHWAYS: A meaningful pedestrian circulation system dedicated or granted by
easement for public use, such as sidewalks and trails that are physically
separated from vehicular traffic thoroughfares, which connects to major trail
systems, parks, schools, shopping areas and community assets. (Ord. 91-01, 12-
2016; amd. 2018 Code)
11-5-3: PARKS AND PATHWAYS REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise provided, every subdivision shall set aside park(s) and/or
pathway(s) in accordance with standards set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 91-01,
12-2016)
11-5-4: PARKS COMMITTEE POWERS:
The Bellevue Parks Committee shall review and make a recommendation to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council regarding each application for
subdivision or development of five (5) residential units or more. Such
recommendation will be based on compatibility with the Master Plan and the
recreation section of the Comprehensive Plan and compliance with the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-5-5: CONTRIBUTIONS:
The developer of a subdivision or any part thereof, consisting of five (5) or
more residential lots, including residential townhouse sublots and residential
condominium units, without regard to the number of phases within the
subdivision, shall set aside or acquire land area within, adjacent to, or in
the general vicinity of the subdivision, or make in lieu payment for parks as
required hereunder. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   A.   Land Contributions:
      1.   Parks shall be developed within the City and set aside in accordance
with the following formula:
         P = x multiplied by 0.033
         "P" is the park contribution in acres
         "x" is the number of single-family lots, townhouse sublots, or
condominium units contained within the plat. Where multi-family lots are being
platted with no fixed number of units, "x" is the maximum number of residential
units possible within the subdivision based on current zoning regulations.
      2.   In the event the subdivision is located in the B Business, LB/
R Limited Business/Residential or T Transitional Zoning District, the area
required for a park shall be reduced by seventy five percent (75%), but in no
event shall the area required for a park/cultural space exceed seventeen and
one-half percent (17.5%) of the area of the lot(s) being developed.
   B.   Contributions In Lieu Of Land Dedications And Improvements:
      1.   After receiving a recommendation by the Parks Committee, the Council
may, at their discretion, approve and accept voluntary cash contributions in
lieu of park land dedication and park improvements.
      2.   The voluntary cash contributions in lieu of park land shall be
equivalent to the area of land (e.g., square footage) required to be dedicated
under this chapter multiplied by the fair market value of the land (e.g., $/
square foot) in the development at the time of preliminary plat approval by the
Council. The City shall identify the location of the property to be appraised.
The appraisal shall be submitted by a mutually agreed upon appraiser and paid
for by the applicant.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided, the voluntary cash contribution in
lieu of park land shall also include the cost for park improvements, including
all costs of acquisition, construction and all related costs. The cost for such
improvements shall be based upon the estimated costs provided by a qualified
contractor and/or vendor. In the B Business, LB/R Limited Business/Residential
and T Transitional Zoning Districts, in-lieu contributions will not include the
cost for park improvements.
      4.   In-lieu contributions must be segregated by the City and not used
for any other purpose other than the acquisition of park land and/or park
improvements, which may include upgrades and replacement of park improvements.
Such funds should be used, whenever feasible or practicable, on improvements
within walking distance of the residents of the subdivision. (Ord. 91-01, 12-
2016)
11-5-6: MULTIPLE OWNERSHIP:
Multiple ownership where a parcel of land is owned or otherwise controlled in
any manner, directly or indirectly,
   A.   By the same individual(s) or entity(ies) including, but not limited to,
corporation(s), partnership(s), limited liability company(ies) or trust(s); or
   B.   By different individuals or entities including, but not limited to,
corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or trusts where: 1)
such individual(s) or entity(ies) have a controlling ownership or contractual
right with the other individual(s) or entity(ies); or 2) the same individual(s)
or entity(ies) act in any manner as an employee, owner, partner, agent,
stockholder, director, member, officer or trustee of the entity(ies),
multiple subdivisions of said parcel that cumulatively result in five (5) or
more dwelling units, are subject to the provisions of this chapter, and shall
provide the required improvements subject to the required standards at or
before the platting or development of five (5) or more dwelling units. (Ord.
91-01, 12-2016)
11-5-7: MINIMUM REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Private Green Space: Use and maintenance of any privately owned green
space shall be controlled by recorded covenants or restrictions which run with
the land in favor of the future owners of the property within the tract and
which cannot be modified without the consent of the Council.
   B.   Minipark: Minipark improvements shall be made by the developer. A
certified landscape plan shall be prepared by a landscape architect depicting
the following: A minipark shall include finished grading and ground cover,
trees and shrubs, picnic table(s), trash container(s), dog station(s), bike
racks and park bench(es). All miniparks shall provide an average of fifteen
(15) trees per acre, of which at least fifteen percent (15%) shall be of four
inch (4") caliper or greater. The remaining percentage shall be a minimum of
two and one-half inch (2.5") caliper or greater. Evergreen species shall be of
a height not less than eight feet (8'). A maximum of twenty percent (20%) of
any single tree species may be used. Landscaping and irrigation shall integrate
water conservation.
   C.   Neighborhood Park: Neighborhood park improvements shall be made by the
developer. A certified landscape plan shall be prepared by a landscape
architect depicting the following: A neighborhood park shall include finished
grading and ground cover, large grassy areas, trees and shrubs, sheltered
picnic table(s), trash container(s), dog station(s), bike rack(s), park bench
(es), parking as required by ordinance, and two (2) or more of the following:
play structure, restrooms, an athletic field, trails, hard surface recreational
court (i.e., tennis or basketball courts), or gardens that demonstrate
conservation principles. Neighborhood parks shall provide an average of fifteen
(15) trees per acre, of which at least fifteen percent (15%) shall be of four
inch (4") caliper or greater. The remaining percentage shall be a minimum of
two and one-half inch (2.5") caliper or greater. Evergreen species shall be of
a height not less than eight feet (8'). A maximum of twenty percent (20%) of
any single tree species may be used. Landscaping and irrigation shall integrate
water conservation.
   D.   Park/Cultural Space: Park/cultural space park improvements shall be
made by the developer. A certified landscape plan shall be prepared by a
landscape architect depicting the following: A park/cultural space shall
include benches, planters, trees, public art, water features and other elements
that would create a gathering place. Connective elements, such as parkways or
enhanced sidewalks, may also qualify where such elements connect two (2) or
more parks or park/cultural spaces.
   E.   Pathways: Pathways shall be paved or improved as recommended by the
Master Plan and/or City standards. Construction of pathways shall be undertaken
at the same time as other public improvements are installed within the
development, unless the Council otherwise allows when deemed beneficial for the
project. The developer shall be entitled to receive a park dedication credit
only if the developer completes and constructs a pathway identified in the
Master Plan, or completes and constructs a pathway not identified in the Master
Plan where the pathway connects to existing or proposed trails identified in
the Master Plan. The City may permit easements to be granted by developers for
pathways identified in the Master Plan, thereby allowing the developer to
include the land area in the determination of setbacks and building density on
the site, but in such cases, a park dedication credit will not be given. A
developer is entitled to receive a credit against any area required for a park
for every square foot of qualified dedicated pathway right-of-way. (Ord. 91-01,
12-2016)
11-5-8: PARK STANDARDS:
Land proposed to be dedicated for recreation purposes shall meet the minimum
applicable requirements required by this chapter based on the identified needs
and standards contained within the Master Plan and the recreational section of
the Comprehensive Plan. All parks, green space, and trails shall meet the
following criteria for development location and size (unless unusual conditions
exist that prohibit meeting 1 or more of the criteria):
   A.   Shall provide safe and convenient access, including ADA standards.
   B.   Shall not be gated so as to restrict access and shall not be configured
in such a manner that will create a perception of intruding on private space.
If a park is privately owned and maintained, the use of the park shall not be
exclusive to the homeowners, residents or employees of the development.
   C.   Shall be configured in size, shape, topography and improvements to be
functional for the intended users. To be eligible for park dedication credit,
land dedicated must be located on slopes less than fifteen degrees (15°), and
must be located outside of drainways, floodways and wetland areas. Miniparks
shall not be occupied by nonrecreational buildings and shall be available for
the use of all the residents or employees of the proposed subdivision.
   D.   Shall not create undue negative impact on adjacent properties and shall
be buffered from conflicting land uses.
   E.   Shall not create undue demands on City services.
   F.   Shall require low maintenance or provide for maintenance or a
maintenance endowment. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-5-9: PATHWAY STANDARDS:
   A.   Pathways shall be connected, when required, in a useful manner to other
recreation opportunities.
   B.   The developer shall define a meaningful pedestrian circulation system
for each development which connects to the major trail system, parks, schools,
shopping areas and community assets. The developer shall install sidewalks and
trails as required by ordinance according to City standards.
   C.   The developer shall construct and pave all trails through and abutting
their developments identified in the Master Plan. Such trail improvements shall
be undertaken at the same time as other public improvements are installed
within the development (i.e., grading with site grading and paving with street
or parking lot paving). Deviation from this timing requirement may be allowed
only when deemed beneficial for the project. Park dedication credit may be
given for trails and pedestrian improvements identified in the Master Plan.
   D.   The developer may complete, construct and pave all trails not
identified in the Master Plan. Park dedication credit may be given for such
trails if they connect to existing or proposed trails identified in the Master
Plan.
   E.   The City may permit easements to be granted by developers for trail
corridors identified in the Master Plan, thereby allowing the developer to
include the land area in the determination of setbacks and building density on
the site. In such cases, park dedication credit will not be given. (Ord. 91-01,
12-2016)
11-5-10: GREEN SPACE STANDARDS:
   A.   Preserved green space within proposed developments shall be designed to
be contiguous and interconnecting with adjacent green space (both existing and
potential future space).
   B.   If green space is required or offered as part of a subdivision,
townhouse or condominium development, all green space shall meet the following
criteria for development, location and size (unless unusual conditions exist
that prohibit meeting 1 or more of the criteria): Public and private green
spaces on the same property or adjacent properties shall be complementary to
one another. Green space within proposed developments shall be designed to be
contiguous and interconnecting with any adjacent green space (both existing and
potential future space). (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-5-11: DEDICATION AND MAINTENANCE:
With the exception of miniparks, all park land shall be dedicated to the City
upon completion, unless otherwise allowed by the City Council upon
recommendation by the Parks and Lands Board. Parks shall be guaranteed by bond
and maintained by the developer until each lot is developed in the subdivision
and for a minimum period of not less than two (2) years. Any privately owned
and maintained park or recreation space (by the future residents or business
owners of the subdivision) must meet the following:
   A.   Land area shall not be occupied by nonrecreational buildings and shall
not be exclusive to the homeowners, residents or employees of the development.
   B.   The use of the private green space shall be restricted for park,
playground, trail green space or recreational purposes by recorded covenants
which run with the land in favor of the future owners of the property within
the tract and which cannot be modified without the consent of the City Council.
   C.   The facilities dedicated for such purposes are in accordance with the
provisions of the recreational element of the Master Plan and the Comprehensive
Plan.
   D.   The private ownership and maintenance of the green space and parks
shall be adequately provided by written agreement. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 6
LOT LINE READJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Procedure
11-6-1: PROCEDURE:
An owner or subdivider wishing to readjust lot lines, as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title, shall be required to file two (2) copies of a plat and
application with the Administrator for administrative review. Additional
information reasonably required for thorough review of the application and plat
may be required by the Administrator to be provided by the applicant. Waivers
shall be requested according to chapter 13 of this title. The Council shall
remand any application and/or waiver request to the commission for
recommendation prior to taking final action. The Administrator shall provide
written notice of said application to owners of property immediately adjacent
to the subject property. Said notice shall inform adjacent property owners they
may comment on the application during a period of not less than ten (10) days
after mailing of the notice and prior to final action on said application.
Following expiration of the said comment period and upon a finding by the
Administrator that the plat conforms to the readjustment of lot line definition
and is in compliance with the provisions of this title, the Administrator shall
approve same or approve with conditions necessary to find same in compliance
with the provisions of this title. Upon a finding by the Administrator that the
application does not conform to said definition or is not in compliance with
this title, the Administrator shall deny the application and shall state the
reasons therefor in writing, and a copy signed by the Administrator, attached
to one copy of the plat, shall be returned to the applicant. Upon Council
approval of an application and upon satisfaction by the applicant of any
conditions attached thereto, the Administrator shall inform the City Clerk and
the City Clerk shall sign the plat. Any questions with regard to the
interpretation and/or applicability of this section or other sections shall be
referred to the Council by the Administrator for determination. (Ord. 91-01,
12-2016)
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Application For Vacation Or Dedication
11-7-2: Commission Action
11-7-3: Council Action
11-7-1: APPLICATION FOR VACATION OR DEDICATION:
Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing public street, alley or
easement right-of-way, or desiring to dedicate a street alley, or easement
right-of-way shall file an application with the Administrator. Upon receipt of
the completed application and other information reasonably required by the
Administrator, the date of the acceptance of the application shall be affixed
thereon. Thereafter, said application shall be placed upon the commission
agenda for consideration at a regular meeting of the commission, and the
procedures followed for such vacations shall comply with Idaho Code sections
50-1306(A), 50-1321, and 50-1325, including subsequent amendments or
modifications. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-7-2: COMMISSION ACTION:
The commission shall consider the application and testimony of the applicant,
and such other information as may come before it with regard to the proposed
vacation or dedication. The commission shall consider the interests of the
adjacent property owners, public utilities, conformance of the proposal with
the Comprehensive Plan, and the future development of the neighborhood, and
shall make its recommendations for accepting or rejecting said application. If
dedication of a street is accepted, recommendations for improvements to be made
prior to the acceptance shall be made by the commission. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-7-3: COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Vacations: In considering an application for vacation of an existing
street, alley, or easement right-of-way, the Council shall establish a date for
public hearing and give such notice as required by law. The Council shall hear
and consider the public testimony, applicant testimony, recommendations of the
commission, and any other information as may be brought before the Council.
Whenever the Council vacates an existing public street, the City shall provide
adjacent property owners with a quit claim deed for the said vacated street as
prescribed by law. The vacation shall become effective upon delivery of the
deed(s).
   B.   Dedications: When considering an application for dedication to a public
street, alley, or easement right-of-way, the Council may require certain
improvements to be constructed or performance bond furnished prior to
acceptance of the dedication. To complete the acceptance of any dedication, the
Council shall accept same by resolution or by approval of a final subdivision
plat.
   C.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
widening of any street which is shown in the Comprehensive Plan or the
dedication of nonvehicular easements to the City. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 8
CONDOMINIUMS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Submission Of Bylaws And Condominium Declarations
11-8-3: Specific Requirements
11-8-4: Compliance With Other Provisions
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth special provisions for property
created or converted pursuant to the Condominium Property Act, Idaho Code title
55, chapter 15, as amended, revised, or compiled. The provisions of this
chapter are found necessary in order to provide for the public health, safety,
and welfare of purchasers and residents of such condominium. (Ord. 91-01, 12-
2016)
11-8-2: SUBMISSION OF BYLAWS AND CONDOMINIUM DECLARATIONS:
   A.   The subdivider of the condominium project shall submit with the
preliminary plat application a copy of the proposed bylaws and condominium
declarations of the proposed condominium development. Said documents shall
adequately provide for the control and maintenance of all common areas,
recreational facilities, and open space.
   B.   Prior to final plat approval, the subdivider shall submit to the City a
copy of the final bylaws and condominium declarations which shall be approved
by the Council and filed with the County Recorder prior to the final plat
approval, including the instrument number(s) under which each document was
recorded. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-8-3: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Garages: All garages shall be designated on the preliminary and final
plats and on all deeds as part of the particular condominium units. No garage
may be condominiumized or sold separate from a condominium unit.
   B.   Storage Areas: Adequate storage areas shall be provided for boats,
campers, and trailers, as well as adequate interior storage space for personal
property of the resident of each condominium unit.
   C.   Parking: Two (2) additional parking spaces shall be required for every
three (3) units to accommodate visitor parking and additional family vehicles.
   D.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building or room shall be provided
of adequate size and location for the type and size of the condominium project
for storage of maintenance equipment and supplies for common areas.
   E.   Open Space: The subdivider shall dedicate to the common use of the
homeowners adequate open space and/or recreational amenities of such shape and
area usable and convenient to the residents of the condominium subdivision.
Location of building sites and common areas shall maximize privacy and solar
access. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-8-4: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
There shall be compliance by condominium subdivisions with all other provisions
of this title and all applicable ordinances, rules and regulations of the City
and all other governmental entities having jurisdiction. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 9
TOWNHOUSES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Purpose
11-9-2: Submission Of Owner's Documents
11-9-3: Preliminary Plat Procedure
11-9-4: Final Plat Procedure
11-9-5: Garages
11-9-6: Compliance With Other Provisions
11-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth provisions for the real property
subdivided into townhouse sublots, said provisions found necessary in order to
provide for the welfare of purchasers and residents of such townhouse
developments. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-9-2: SUBMISSION OF OWNER'S DOCUMENTS:
The subdivider of the townhouse project shall submit with the preliminary plat
application a copy of the proposed party wall agreement and any proposed
document(s) creating an association of owners of the proposed townhouse
sublots, which shall adequately provide for the control and maintenance of all
commonly held facilities, garages, parking and/or open spaces. Prior to final
plat approval, the subdivider shall submit to the City a final copy of said
documents and shall file said documents prior to recording of the plat, which
shall reflect the recording instrument numbers thereupon. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-9-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   The subdivider shall apply for townhouse preliminary plat approval from
the commission pursuant to subsections 11-3-3A, B and C of this title, and at
the same time apply for design review approval from the commission for the
townhouse project. The commission may recommend to approve, deny or
conditionally approve the preliminary plat.
   B.   The Council shall review the commission's findings and recommendations
regarding the preliminary plat application and may approve, deny or
conditionally approve the application. No public hearing need be held by the
Council prior to making its decision on a townhouse preliminary plat
application. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-9-4: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   The contents of a townhouse final plat application shall comply with
the requirements of subsection 11-3-4B of this title. In addition, as part of
the final plat application, the applicant shall provide: 1) written approval of
the final framing inspection of both townhouse units from the City building
inspector; and 2) a written certification signed by an engineer, licensed in
the State of Idaho, that the party wall, as constructed between the townhouse
units, is located on the property line in between those units as shown on the
final plat.
   B.   Upon receipt thereof, the final plat shall be reviewed by the Planning
and Zoning Administrator and the City Engineer to determine its compliance with
the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of this title and other
applicable ordinances. If, after consultation with the City Engineer, the
Administrator finds the final plat in conformance with the approved preliminary
plat, all conditions of such approval and all other applicable City ordinances,
the Administrator shall sign the final plat and forward same to the City Clerk
and Mayor for signature. If the Administrator finds the final plat does not
conform to the requirements of this title, the Administrator shall deny the
plat application. In the event the Administrator has questions regarding
compliance of the final plat with the requirements of this title, the
Administrator may defer the application to the commission for recommendations
to the City Council, who shall review the final plat and make the final
decision with regard thereto. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-9-5: GARAGES:
All garages shall be designated on the preliminary and final plats and on all
deeds as part of the particular townhouse units. Detached garages may be
platted on separate sublots; provided, that the ownership of detached garages
is tied to specific townhouse units on the townhouse plat and in any owner's
documents and that the detached garage(s) may not be sold and/or owned
separately from any dwelling unit(s) within the townhouse development. (Ord.
91-01, 12-2016)
11-9-6: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
There shall be compliance by the townhouse subdivisions with all other
provisions of this title and all applicable ordinances, rules, and regulations
of the City and all other governmental entities having jurisdiction. (Ord. 91-
01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 10
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Deemed A Residential Subdivision
11-10-2: Requirements
11-10-1: DEEMED A RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION:
Mobile home subdivisions shall be treated the same as any residential
subdivision project and subject to the requirements set forth in the zoning
ordinance, Building Code, and any other statute, ordinance, or regulations of
the City. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-10-2: REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile home subdivisions shall also be subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Such subdivisions shall be screened from adjacent areas other than
subdivisions of the same type by an aesthetically acceptable fence and/or
planting strip.
   B.   Adequate provision shall be made for the maintenance of the
subdivision.
   C.   Side lot lines shall be within thirty degrees (30°) of the right angle
or radial line to the street line. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 11
PHASED DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Compliance With Provisions
11-11-2: Development Plan And Schedule; General Requirements
11-11-3: Commission Action
11-11-4: Council Action
11-11-5: Preliminary Plats
11-11-6: Required Improvements
11-11-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Any subdivider wishing to develop a subdivision over a series of years shall
comply with the additional requirements and regulations set forth in this
chapter. Each phase of such development shall contain all the necessary
elements and improvements to exist independently from proposed future states in
a stable manner and shall comply with all applicable zoning regulations. (Ord.
91-01, 12-2016)
11-11-2: DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In addition to the subdivision application and data, the subdivider
shall submit to the Administrator a development plan and development schedule
for the entire project, containing all of the information required in
subsection 11-3-3B of this title. The development plan, if approved, shall be
the master plan for the entire project, subject to modification by the
subdivider through the same procedures as required for approval of the original
plan; and subject to additional regulations of subsequently adopted or amended
ordinances and statutes; and subject to additional requirements imposed by the
commission or Council due to changes in the development plan or as a result of
subsequent subdivision or development of neighboring properties.
   B.   After approval of the development plan, the subdivider shall submit to
the City a preliminary plat and final plat of each phase of the project built
or to be built as evidenced by a valid building permit therefor.
   C.   The time limitations set forth in subsection 11-3-4D of this title
shall apply to phased developments. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-11-3: COMMISSION ACTION:
Upon receipt of the application and development plan by the commission,
commission action shall be as directed in subsection 11-3-4C of this title.
(Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-11-4: COUNCIL ACTION:
The Administrator, upon receiving the findings and recommendations of the
commission, shall place the subdivision application, development plan and
schedule on the agenda of the next regular City Council meeting. The Council
shall review the recommendations of the commission and all information and data
contained in the file and shall approve or deny the application and development
plan. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-11-5: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
Upon approval of a development plan, the subdivider shall file a preliminary
plat for each stage of his development in conformance with the approved
development plan. Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may
commence construction of the required improvements as herein provided. (Ord.
91-01, 12-2016)
11-11-6: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
The City Council may require that the subdivider install a portion of the
required improvements for the entire project as set forth in the development
plan. Such required improvements shall be constructed prior to the approval of
the final plat for any phase of the development. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 12
IMPACT STATEMENT
SECTION:
11-12-1: Statement Required
11-12-2: Required Information
11-12-3: Additional Requirements
11-12-4: Effect On Adjacent Lands
11-12-1: STATEMENT REQUIRED:
The subdivider proposing a subdivision of more than ten (10) lots or
condominium units may be required by the commission or Council to prepare an
impact statement prior to the approval of a preliminary plat. The statement
shall discuss the potential effects of the proposed development upon the City
in terms of the impact upon economics, public facilities, or environment as set
forth herein. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-12-2: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The impact statement shall include a study of the potential impact upon:
   A.   Sewer facilities.
   B.   Domestic water facilities.
   C.   Fire protection, including fire protection water supply.
   D.   Police protection.
   E.   Utilities.
   F.   Schools.
   G.   Roads and traffic.
   H.   Other public facilities.
   I.   Noise, water, and air pollution.
   J.   Environmental impact, including upon vegetation, wildlife, and wildlife
habitat, groundwater and surface water, and soil erosion.
   K.   Public transportation.
   L.   Public easements, created or threatened, and recreational availability.
   M.   Avalanche hazard and flood hazard.
   N.   Drainage.
   O.   Grading of slopes.
   P.   Adjacent properties and neighborhoods.
   Q.   Snow removal areas and services.
   R.   Designating and defining the impact upon areas of historical
significance.
   S.   Effects of agriculture. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-12-3: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The commission or Council may reasonably require the impact statement to be
extended to include other factors and criteria not listed in section
11-12-2 of this chapter due to unusual characteristics of the land or character
of the proposed development or improvements thereon. Furthermore, the
subdivider may be required to provide additional information and studies with
regard to any of the factors or criteria required in the impact statement.
(Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-12-4: EFFECT ON ADJACENT LANDS:
When an owner or subdivider owns or controls contiguous or adjacent land which
he proposes to subdivide under the terms of this title, the commission or
Council may require that the contiguous or adjacent property be included in the
subdivision or that a development plan for the entire tract be presented.
Furthermore, the commission or Council may require that the entire parcel or
parcels of land be platted. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
CHAPTER 13
WAIVERS AND APPEALS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Waivers
11-13-2: Appeals
11-13-1: WAIVERS:
   A.   Commission Recommendation; Council Approval: Waiver of any of the
requirements of this title may be granted by the Council on a case basis upon
the recommendation of the commission.
   B.   Application For Waiver:
      1.   Application for such waiver(s) must be in writing and must show that
there are special physical characteristics or conditions affecting the property
in question where a literal enforcement of this title would result in undue
hardship not the result of actions by the subdivider, and that the waiver would
not be detrimental to the public welfare, health, and safety, nor injurious to
the property owners in the immediate area.
      2.   Applications shall be made to the Administrator in writing at the
time of subdivision application. Said waiver, together with such related data
and maps as are necessary to fully illustrate the relief sought, shall be filed
at the same time. Such application shall be processed and considered with the
preliminary plat application. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
11-13-2: APPEALS:
Any interested party may appeal in writing the decision of the commission,
Administrator, or building inspector relative to any matter(s) with regard to
this title. Said appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk within
fifteen (15) days from the date of the decision. The appeal shall state the
exact decision or recommendation appealed and the reasons therefor. If no
appeal is filed within fifteen (15) days as herein provided, the decision shall
be final. (Ord. 91-01, 12-2016)
TITLE 12
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authority
12-1-2:    Findings Of Fact
12-1-3:    Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4:    Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant to Idaho Code sections 46-1020,
46-1023, and 46-1024, authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain
management ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum floodplain
development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health,
and property. Therefore, the City Council of Bellevue Idaho does hereby ordain
as follows. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Bellevue are subject to periodic inundation
that results in:
      1.   Loss of life and property;
      2.   Health and safety hazards;
      3.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      4.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      5.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life, health, and property;
   B.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
   C.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   D.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   E.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   F.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-1-4: OBJECTIVES AND METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purpose, this title includes methods and provisions
to:
   A.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   C.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   D.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   E.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-
2019)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1:    Definitions
12-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
title it's most reasonable application.
 
                                    A structure on the same lot or parcel as a
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT    principal structure, the use of which is
STRUCTURE):                         incidental and subordinate to the principal
                                    structure.
ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING): An extension or increase in the floor area
                                    or height of a building or structure.
                                    A request for review of the Floodplain
APPEAL:                             Administrator's interpretation of
                                    provisions of this title or request for a
                                    variance.
                                    A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone
                                    on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
                                    (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
                                    annual chance of flooding to an average
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING:           depth of one to three feet (1'- 3') where a
                                    clearly defined channel does not exist,
                                    where the path of flooding is
                                    unpredictable, and where velocity flow may
                                    be evident. Such flooding is characterized
                                    by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:       See Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
                                    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance
BASE FLOOD:                         of being equaled or exceeded in any given
                                    year.
                                    A determination by the Federal Insurance
                                    Administrator of the water surface
                                    elevations of the base flood, that is, the
                                    flood level that has a one percent or
                                    greater chance of occurrence in any given
                                    year. When the BFE has not been provided in
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE):         a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be
                                    obtained from engineering studies available
                                    from a Federal, State, or other source
                                    using FEMA-approved engineering
                                    methodologies. This elevation, when
                                    combined with the Freeboard, establishes
                                    the Flood Protection Elevation.
 
 
BASEMENT:             Any area of the building having its floor sub grade
                      (below ground level) on all sides.
BUILDING:             See Structure.
                      Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
                      critical to the health and safety of the public before,
                      during, and after a flood, such as a hospital, emergency
                      operations center, electric substation, police station,
CRITICAL FACILITIES:  fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
                      storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if
                      flooded, would make the flood problem and its impacts
                      much worse, such as a hazardous materials facility, power
                      generation facility, water utility, or wastewater
                      treatment plant.
                      The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of
                      points) from which all elevations are determined.
                      Historically, that common set of points was the National
DATUM:                Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical
                      datum currently adopted by the federal government as a
                      basis for measuring heights is the North American
                      Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
                      Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
                      estate, including but not limited to buildings or other
DEVELOPMENT:          structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
                      excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
                      equipment or materials.
                      Any activity defined as development which will
                      necessitate a Floodplain Development Permit; such as: the
                      construction of buildings, structures, or accessory
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: structures; additions or substantial improvements to
                      existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers,
                      and pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the
                      deposition or extraction of materials; the construction
                      or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
 
 
                                   The digital official map of a community,
                                   issued by the Federal Emergency
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP   Management Agency, on which both the
(DFIRM):                           Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk
                                   premium zones applicable to the community
                                   are delineated.
                                   For insurance purposes, a non-basement
                                   building which has its lowest elevated
ELEVATED BUILDING:                 floor raised above ground level by
                                   foundation walls, shear walls, posts,
                                   piers, pilings, or columns.
                                   The Elevation Certificate is an important
                                   administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
                                   used to determine the proper flood
                                   insurance premium rate; it is used to
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE:             document elevation information necessary
                                   to ensure compliance with community
                                   floodplain management regulations; and it
                                   may be used to support a request for a
                                   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter
                                   of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
                                   An area enclosed by solid walls below the
                                   BFE/FPE or an area formed when any space
                                   below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all
ENCLOSURE:                         sides by walls or partitions. Insect
                                   screening or open wood lattice used to
                                   surround space below the BFE/RFPE is not
                                   considered an enclosure.
                                   The advance or infringement of uses,
                                   fill, excavation, buildings, structures,
ENCROACHMENT:                      or development into a floodplain, which
                                   may impede or alter the flow capacity of
                                   a floodplain.
                                   For the purposes of determining rates,
                                   structures for which the "start of
                                   construction" commenced before the
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:             effective date of the FIRM or before
                                   January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective
                                   before that date. "Existing construction"
                                   may also be referred to as "existing
                                   structures."
                                   A manufactured home park or subdivision
                                   where the construction of facilities for
                                   servicing the lots on which the
                                   manufactured homes are to be affixed
                                   (including, at a minimum, the
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR installation of utilities, the
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION:     construction of streets, and final site
                                   grading or the pouring of concrete pads)
                                   is completed before the effective date of
                                   the original floodplain management
                                   regulations adopted by the community,
                                   August 1, 1978.
 
 
EXISTING       See existing construction.
STRUCTURES:
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
AN EXISTING    the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
MANUFACTURED   installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR   grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
               1.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
               dry land areas from:
                  a.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                  b.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
                  c.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in paragraph 1b of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
FLOODING:      a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               2.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
               level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
               some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
               in paragraph 1a of this definition.
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
DETERMINATION:
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
STUDY:
 
 
FLOOD
HAZARD     An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administrator,
BOUNDARY   where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion
MAP        areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
(FHBM):
FLOOD      An official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator
INSURANCE  has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium zones
RATE MAP   applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is
(FIRM):    called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD      An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if
INSURANCE  appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination,
STUDY      evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
(FIS):     erosion hazards.
           The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard.
FLOOD      1.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have
PROTECTION been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of
ELEVATION  freeboard; and
(FPE):     2.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established, this
           elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
           Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
           appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to
FLOOD      modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community
PROTECTION subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated
SYSTEM:    flooding. Such a system typically includes dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes.
           These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance
           with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD      A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood
ZONE:      Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
           area.
 
                                   Any land area susceptible to being inundated
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA:    by water from any source (see definition of
                                   "flooding").
                                   The individual appointed to administer and
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:          enforce the floodplain management
                                   regulations.
                                   Any type of permit that is required in
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:     conformance with the provisions of this
                                   ordinance, prior to the commencement of any
                                   development activity.
                                   The operation of an overall program of
                                   corrective and preventive measures for
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT:             reducing flood damage, including but not
                                   limited to emergency preparedness plans,
                                   flood control works, and flood plain
                                   management regulations.
                                   Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
                                   building codes, health regulations, special
                                   purpose ordinances (such as a flood plain
                                   ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: control ordinance), and other applications
                                   of police power. The term describes such
                                   state or local regulations, in any
                                   combination thereof, which provide standards
                                   for the purpose of flood damage prevention
                                   and reduction.
                                   Any combination of structural and non-
                                   structural additions, changes, or
FLOODPROOFING:                     adjustments to structures which reduce or
                                   eliminate flood damage to real estate or
                                   improved real property, water and sanitary
                                   facilities, structures and their contents.
                                   The channel of a river or other watercourse
                                   and the adjacent land areas that must be
FLOODWAY:                          reserved in order to discharge the base
                                   flood without cumulatively increasing the
                                   water surface elevation.
                                   A factor of safety usually expressed in feet
                                   above a flood level for the purposes of
                                   floodplain management. Freeboard tends to
                                   compensate for the many unknown factors that
                                   could contribute to flood heights greater
                                   than the height calculated for a selected
FREEBOARD:                         size flood and floodway conditions, such as
                                   wave action, obstructed bridge openings,
                                   debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic
                                   effects of urbanization in a watershed. The
                                   Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the
                                   freeboard establishes the Flood Protection
                                   Elevation {'{'}FPE). Freeboard shall be two
                                   feet (2').
 
 
             A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
DEPENDENT    necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or
USE:         ship repair facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture,
             sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST      The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction,
ADJACENT     adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation
GRADE (HAG): Certificate for HAG related to building elevation information.
             A structure that is:
             1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
             maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
             Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
             the National Register;
             2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
             contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or
             to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC     historic district;
STRUCTURE:   3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
             eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
             the Secretary of the Interior; or
             4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
             eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been
             certified either:
                a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
             Interior; or
                b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
             programs.
LETTER OF    A general term used to refer to the several types of revisions and amendments to
MAP CHANGE   FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMC):      (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill
             (LOMR-F).
 
 
                                                        FEMA's modification to
                                                        an effective Flood
                                                        Insurance Rate Map
                                                        (FIRM) or a Flood
                                                        Boundary and Floodway
                                                        Map (FBFM) or both.
                                                        LOMRs are generally
                                                        based on the
                                                        implementation of
                                                        physical measures that
                                                        affect the hydrologic
                                                        or hydraulic
                                                        characteristics of a
                                                        flooding source and
                                                        thus result in the
                                                        modification of the
                                                        existing regulatory
                                                        floodway, the effective
                                                        Base Flood Elevations
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR):                    (BFEs), or the Special
                                                        Flood Hazard Area
                                                        (SFHA). The LOMR
                                                        officially revises the
                                                        Flood Insurance Rate
                                                        Map (FIRM) or Flood
                                                        Boundary and Floodway
                                                        Map (FBFM), and
                                                        sometimes the Flood
                                                        Insurance Study (FIS)
                                                        report, and when
                                                        appropriate, includes a
                                                        description of the
                                                        modifications. The LOMR
                                                        is generally
                                                        accompanied by an
                                                        annotated copy of the
                                                        affected portions of
                                                        the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS
                                                        report.
                                                        FEMA's modification of
                                                        the Special Flood
                                                        Hazard Area (SFHA)
                                                        shown on the Flood
                                                        Insurance Rate Map
   LETTER OF MAP    REVISION BASED    ON FILL ((FIRM) based on the
                                                        placement of fill
                                                        outside the existing
                                                        regulatory floodway.
                                                        The LOMR-F does not
                                                        change the FIRM, FBFM,
                                                        or FIS report.
                                                        A formal review and
                                                        comment as to whether a
                                                        proposed flood
                                                        protection project or
                                                        other project complies
                                                        with the minimum NFIP
                                                        requirements for such
                                                        projects with respect
                                                        to delineation of
                                                        special flood hazard
                                                        areas. A CLOMR does not
                                                        revise the effective
                                                        Flood Insurance Rate
                                                        Map (FIRM) or Flood
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR):       Insurance Study (FIS).
                                                        Upon submission and
                                                        approval of certified
                                                        as-built documentation,
                                                        a Letter of Map
                                                        Revision (LOMR) may be
                                                        issued by FEMA to
                                                        revise the effective
                                                        FIRM. Building Permits
                                                        and/or Flood
                                                        Development Permits
                                                        cannot be issued based
                                                        on a CLOMR, because a
                                                        CLOMR does not change
                                                        the NFIP map.
 
 
             A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
LEVEE:       constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain,
             control, or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from
             temporary flooding.
             A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
LEVEE        associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
SYSTEM:      constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering
             practices.
LOWEST       The lowest point of the ground level next to the structure. Refer to
ADJACENT     the FEMA Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building elevation
GRADE (LAG): information.
             The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
             unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
LOWEST       vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement
FLOOR:       area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
             enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
             the applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3 and
             this title.
             A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a
MANUFACTURED permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
HOME:        foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
             "Manufactured Home" does not include a "Recreational Vehicle."
MANUFACTURED A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more
HOME PARK OR manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
             The building value, not including the land value and that of any
MARKET       accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value
VALUE:       may be established by independent certified appraisal; replacement
             cost depreciated for age of building and quality of construction
             (Actual Cash Value); or adjusted tax assessed values.
 
 
                                     For purposes of the National Flood
                                     Insurance Program (NFIP), the National
                                     Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929
MEAN SEA LEVEL:                      or other datum (such as North America
                                     Vertical Datum of 1988 - NAVD88) to
                                     which Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) shown
                                     on a community's FIRM are referenced.
                                     Describes a condition where there is a
                                     river, flow, or inundation of liquid mud
                                     down a hillside usually as a result of a
                                     dual condition of loss of brush cover
                                     and the subsequent accumulation of water
                                     on the ground preceded by a period of
MUDSLIDE (I.E., MUDFLOW):            unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
                                     mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a
                                     distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
                                     in progress and will be recognized as
                                     such by the Administrator only if the
                                     mudflow, and not the landslide, is the
                                     proximate cause of damage that occurs.
                                     The operation of an overall program of
                                     corrective and preventive measures for
MUDSLIDE (I.E., MUDFLOW) AREA        reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
MANAGEMENT:                          damage, including but not limited to
                                     emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
                                     control works, and flood plain
                                     management regulations.
                                     An area with land surfaces and slopes of
MUDSLIDE (I.E., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA: unconsolidated material where the
                                     history, geology, and climate indicate a
                                     potential for mudflow.
                                     The NFIP is a Federal program created by
                                     Congress to mitigate future flood losses
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM     nationwide through sound, community-
(NFIP):                              enforced building and zoning ordinances
                                     and to provide access to affordable,
                                     federally backed flood insurance
                                     protection for property owners.
                                     For floodplain management purposes, a
                                     structure for which the start of
                                     construction commenced on or after the
                                     effective date of a floodplain
                                     management regulation adopted by a
                                     community and includes any subsequent
                                     improvements to such structures.
NEW CONSTRUCTION:                    Any construction started after August 1,
                                     1978 and before the effective start date
                                     of this floodplain management ordinance
                                     is subject to the ordinance in effect at
                                     the time the permit was issued, provided
                                     the start of construction was within one
                                     hundred eighty (180) days of permit
                                     issuance.
 
 
NEW          A place where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
MANUFACTURED manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of
HOME PARK OR utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION: concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain
             management regulations adopted by a community August 1, 1978.
POST-FIRM:   Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
             on or after the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
             Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
PRE-FIRM:    before November 26, 2010, the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate
             Map (FIRM).
             A vehicle that is:
             1.   Built on a single chassis; and
             2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
RECREATIONAL horizontal projection; and
VEHICLE:     3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck;
             and
             4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
             living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY   See Floodway.
FLOODWAY:
             To bring the structure or other development into compliance with State or local
             flood plain management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the
REMEDY A     impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be reduced include
VIOLATION:   protecting the structure or other affected development from flood damages,
             implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring
             future similar violations, or reducing Federal financial exposure with regard to
             the structure or other development.
 
 
                                  An NFIP-insured structure that has had at
REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE:        least two (2) paid flood losses of more than
                                  one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any
                                  ten (10) year period since 1978.
RIVERINE:                         Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river
                                  (including tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
                                  The land in the flood plain within a
                                  community subject to a one percent (1%) or
                                  greater chance of flooding in any given year.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): For purposes of these regulations, the term
                                  "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in
                                  meaning with the phrase "area of special
                                  flood hazard".
                                  Includes substantial improvement, and means
                                  the date the building permit was issued,
                                  provided the actual start of construction,
                                  repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
                                  addition placement, or other improvement was
                                  within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
                                  permit date. The actual start means either
                                  the first placement of permanent construction
                                  of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
                                  of slab or footings, the installation of
                                  piles, the construction of columns, or any
                                  work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
                                  placement of a manufactured home on a
                                  foundation. Permanent construction does not
START OF CONSTRUCTION:            include land preparation, such as clearing,
                                  grading, and filling; nor does it include the
                                  installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
                                  does it include excavation for a basement,
                                  footings, piers, or foundations or the
                                  erection of temporary forms; nor does it
                                  include the installation on the property of
                                  accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
                                  not occupied as dwelling units or not part of
                                  the main structure. For a substantial
                                  improvement, the actual start of construction
                                  means the first alteration of any wall,
                                  ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a
                                  building, whether or not that alteration
                                  affects the external dimensions of the
                                  building.
 
 
STRUCTURE:   A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
             principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
             Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
             structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
             (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of
SUBSTANTIAL  "substantial improvement".
DAMAGE:      Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on
             two (2) separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of
             repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
             twenty five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
             occurred.
             Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
             structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
             value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement.
             This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage",
             regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
SUBSTANTIAL  include either:
IMPROVEMENT: 1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
             state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
             identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
             necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
             2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will
             not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and
             the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this title.
             FEMA publications that provide guidance concerning the building performance
             standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U S Code of Federal
             Regulations § 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily
             by State and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
             regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
TECHNICAL    professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing
BULLETINS    bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create
AND          regulations. Rather they provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum
TECHNICAL    requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
FACT SHEETS: It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
             guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community
             requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals
             should contact the community officials to determine whether more restrictive
             State or local regulations apply to the building or site in question. All
             applicable standards of the State or local building code must also be met for any
             building in a flood hazard area. (This definition is OPTIONAL)
 
 
TEMPERATURE  Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in
CONTROLLED:  or appliance.
VARIANCE:    A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this title.
             The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with
             the community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other
VIOLATION:   development without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate, other
             certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3(b)
             (5), (c)(4), (c)(l0), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
             violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER        The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of
SURFACE      1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified
ELEVATION:   datum), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains
             of coastal or riverine areas.
             A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic feature on
WATERCOURSE: or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes
             specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur.
             (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
 
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3-1:    Lands To Which This Title Applies
12-3-2:    Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas
12-3-3:    Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
12-3-4:    Compliance
12-3-5:    Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-3-6:    Interpretation
12-3-7:    Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-3-8:    Penalties For Violation
12-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction of Bellevue Idaho. Nothing in this title is intended to allow uses
or structures that are otherwise prohibited by the zoning ordinance. (Ord.
2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-3-2: BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The Special Flood Hazard Areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO AND
INCORPORATED AREAS, dated November 26, 2010, with accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other
supporting data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this title.
The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office of the City of Bellevue, 115
East Pine Street, Bellevue ID. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this title prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section
12-4-2 . (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered,
or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this title
and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, etc. However, where this title and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or greater
restrictions shall control. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This title does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not create liability
on the part of Bellevue, Idaho or by any officer or employee thereof for flood
damages that result from reliance on this title or an administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-3-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any of its
requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this title or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned for not more than one hundred eighty
(180) days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of Bellevue
from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-4-1:    Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator
12-4-2:    Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-4-3:    Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements
12-4-4:    Corrective Procedures
12-4-5:    Variance Procedures
12-4-1: ION OF FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
The Community Development Director hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain
Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   A.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this title have been satisfied.
   B.   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary Local, State, and Federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC § 1334.
   C.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water Resources
State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). (This is the
LOMC procedure.)
   D.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
(This is the No-Rise Analysis and Certification.)
   E.   Prevent encroachments into floodways and flood fringe areas unless the
certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of section
12-5-5  are met.
   F.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
12-4-3 C.
   G.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of subsection
12-4-3 C.
   H.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of subsection
12-4-3 C.
   I.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsections
12-4-3 C and
12-5-2 B.
   J.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways, or flood fringe areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article.
   K.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of section
12-3-2 , obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or flood fringe area data available from a Federal, State, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to subsection
12-5-3 B, in order to administer the provisions of this title.
   L.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE{'}'} data is provided but no floodway or
flood fringe area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
section
12-3-2 , obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or flood
fringe area data available from a Federal, State, or other source in order to
administer the provisions of this title.
   M.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)
is above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the
option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy
of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   N.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this title and make these records available for public inspection, recognizing
that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.
   O.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a
floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   P.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part thereof
is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this
title, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately
stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition
(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order
constitutes a misdemeanor.
   Q.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
   R.   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   S.   Follow through with corrective procedures of section
12-4-4 .
   T.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   U.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of section
12-3-2  of this title, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map
Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
   V.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of Map
Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs). (Ord.
2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-4-3: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Requirements: Application for a Floodplain Development
Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      1.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         b.   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
12-3-2 , or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
         c.   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
12-3-2 ;
         d.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or flood fringe area(s) as
determined in section
12-3-2 ;
         e.   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
sections
12-3-2 ,
12-3-3 , or
12-5-3 ;
         f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      2.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including but not limited to:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
         c.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      3.   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0- 33)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      4.   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this title are met.
These details include but are not limited to:
         a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with subsection
12-5-1 I2a through I2f when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones
A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30;
      5.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      6.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      7.   Certification that all other Local, State, and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      8.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections
12-5-2 E and F of this title are met;
      9.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when
applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         a.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (This is the No Rise Analysis & Certification & may involve the LOMC
procedure)
   B.   Permit Requirements: The Floodplain Development Permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      1.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, rip-
rap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, etcetera).
      2.   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in section
12-3-2 .
      3.   The Flood Protection Elevation required for the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities.
      4.   The Flood Protection Elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
      5.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      6.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
      7.   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-
30.
      8.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the Start of
Construction definition.
   C.   Certification Requirements:
      1.   Elevation Certificates:
         a.   A Construction Drawings Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33)
is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit. (STATE RECOMMENDED BUT OPTIONAL.)
         b.   A Building Under Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form
86-0-33) is required after the lowest floor is established. Within seven (7)
calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor elevation, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. Any work done within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to
submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         c.   A final as-built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      (The Finished Construction Elevation Certificate certifier shall provide
at least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs must be
taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
provided in Section 12-4-1. To the extent possible, these photographs should
show the entire building including foundation. If the building has split-level
or multi-level areas, provide at least two (2) additional photographs showing
side views of the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph
of the foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or
vents. All photographs must be in color and measure at least three inches by
three inches (3" x 3"). Digital photographs are acceptable. (THE FEMA ELEVATION
CERTIFICATE IS OPTIONAL FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ELEVATION DATA, BUT IS STATE
RECOMMENDED. THE USE OF THE FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE IS REQUIRED FOR THE
PURCHASE OF FLOOD INSURANCE.)
      2.   Floodproofing Certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the Flood Protection Elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the lowest floor and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean
sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      3.   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty six inches (36") in height
above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance
with the provisions of subsection
12-5-2 C2.
      4.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the following shall
all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
         b.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         c.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation; and
         d.   An Idaho Stream Channel Alteration Permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
      5.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in items C1 and C2 of this
subsection:
         a.   Recreational Vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
12-5-2 E1;
         b.   Temporary Structures meeting requirements of subsection
12-5-2 F; and
         c.   Accessory Structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
12-5-2 G.
   D.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted Idaho
Building Code and this ordinance is required. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-4-4: CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   B.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   C.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60{'}'} calendar days, nor more than (90) calendar days. (One hundred
eighty (180) calendar days or less is recommended.) Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   D.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   E.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-4-5: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission as established by, Bellevue,
hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this title.
   B.   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      2.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
12-2-1  of this title, provided provisions of subsections I2, I3, and I4, have
been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      3.   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this Section.
   C.   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this ordinance, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
12-2-1  of this title as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   D.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in subsections C1 through C11 with their application for a
variance.
   E.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
title, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this title.
   F.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   G.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of Idaho upon request.
   H.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
flood fringe area if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
      3..   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   I.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      3.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at
least the Flood Protection Elevation.
      4.   The use complies with all.other applicable Federal, State and local
laws.
   J.   The City of Bellevue Idaho will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of
the Idaho Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at
least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   K.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 2019-09,
9-23-2019)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
12-5-1:    General Standards
12-5-2:    Specific Standards
12-5-3:    Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations
12-5-4:    Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways Or Flood Fringe Areas
12-5-5:    Standards For Floodways And Flood Fringe Areas
12-5-6:    Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/
AH)
12-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   A.   A Riparian Protection Setback is hereby established one hundred feet
(100') back from the mean high-water mark of the Bigwood River within the City.
The following activities and improvements are prohibited within the Riparian
Protection Setback:
      1.   New Construction;
      2.   Placement of structures, except fences and maintenance thereof;
      3.   Placement of fill or dirt or other materials;
      4.   Removal of any live vegetation, except for leaning or diseased trees
that are hazardous of life or property (provided) the root balls shall not be
removed in order to protect against erosion of the river bank) with prior
written confirmation of such condition by a certified Arborist unless a bona
fide emergency to life or property exists, and noxious weeds;
      5.   Planting non-native vegetation, including grass, shrubs and trees;
      6.   Storage of materials and/or equipment before, during or after any
construction or excavation on an adjacent area.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Planting of native riparian vegetation;
      2.   Maintenance of non-native grasses, shrubs and trees existing on the
effective date of this title;
      3.   Emergency bank stabilization activities pursuant to all required
federal, state and City permits; and
      4.   Construction of public roads, and of public utilities and other
structures pursuant to all required by city, state and federal permits; and
      5.   Maintenance of deed or dedicated public pathways, and the
maintenance of existing private pathways, and the creation and maintenance of
one private pathway on each parcel of land of not more than eight (8) feet in
width down to the river.
   B.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.
   C.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage
in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   D.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   E.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions offloading to the Flood Protection Elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   F.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   G.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   H.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   I.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
      1.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the
Flood Protection Elevation; and
      2.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2)flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one (1)
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         c.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   J.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this title.
   K.   Nothing in this title shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
title and located totally or partially within the floodway, flood fringe area,
or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the Flood
Protection Elevation in the floodway, flood fringe area, or stream setback, and
provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the
other requirements of this title.
   L.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
12-4-5 I. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the Flood
Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
12-4-3 C.
   M.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   N.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   O.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   P.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC § 1334.
   Q.   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard Area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   R.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) shall apply. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in sections
12-3-2  or
12-5-4 , the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of section
12-5-1 , are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction, substantial improvements,
and development of any residential structure (including manufactured homes)
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the
Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in section
12-2-1  of this title.
   B.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other non-
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in section
12-2-1  of this title. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30 may
be floodproofed to the Flood Protection Elevation in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the Flood Protection Elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be
in accordance with subsection
12-5-6 B. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
subsection
12-4-3 C, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   C.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the Flood Protection
Elevation, as defined in section
12-2-1  of this title.
      2.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty-six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty-six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection D.
      4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   D.   Additions/Improvements:
      1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      2.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial improvement
with no modifications to the existing structure other than a standard door in
the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
for new construction.
      3.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      4.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a (insert number
of years) year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or
repair is started, must comply with the standards for new construction. For
each building or structure, the (insert number of years) year period begins on
the date of the first improvement or repair of that building or structure
subsequent to the effective date of this title. If the structure has sustained
substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement does not,
however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         b.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement:
         a.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
      2.   Permanent Placement:
         a.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
Temporary Placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in section
12-5-1 .
   F.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      1.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
(1) year;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   G.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, elevation
or floodproofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with subsection
12-4-3 C, and the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
12-5-1 B;
      6.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
12-5-1 E; and
      7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below Flood Protection Elevation in conformance
with the provisions of subsections
12-5-1 I2a through I2f.An accessory structure with a footprint less than two
hundred (200) square feet and is a minimal investment of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500.00) or less and satisfies the criteria outlined in
subsections G1 through G7 above is not required to meet the elevation or
floodproofing standards of subsection B.
   H.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
      2.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be attached
to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      3.   Not elevated above-ground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B of this title shall be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
      4.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
         a.   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         b.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   I.   Construction Of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
      1.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
      2.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point.
      3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      4.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
(5') per second for any crawlspace.
      See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
      Caution:
      Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above
the Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
   J.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways And Flood Fringe:
      1.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodways and flood
fringe shall meet the limitations of section
12-5-5  of this title.
      2.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the
limitations of section
12-5-5  of this title.
      3.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts,
low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel
from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into regulated
floodways and flood fringe, shall meet the limitations of section
12-5-5  of this title.
      4.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways
and flood fringe shall meet the limitations of section
12-5-5  of this title.
      5.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations
of section
12-5-5  of this title.
   K.   Subdivision Plats; Flood Zones:
      1.   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The boundary line
must be drawn on the plat in situations where two (2) or more flood zones
intersect over the property or properties being surveyed.
      2.   FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, etc.
         FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year
         Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, Zone AO, Zone, AH, Zone D,
etc.
         Base Flood Elevation(s): AE     . 0 ft., etc.
         Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA & all land within a floodway
or floodplain is regulated by Title 12 of the Bellevue City Code.
(Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-5-3: STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS:
Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in section
12-3-2 , where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of section
12-5-1 , shall apply:
The BFE used in determining the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
   A.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this title and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in sections
12-5-1  and
12-5-2 .
   B.   When floodway or flood fringe data is available from a Federal, State,
or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements within
floodway and flood fringe areas shall also comply with the requirements of
sections
12-5-2  and
12-5-5 .
   C.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with section
12-3-2  and utilized in implementing this title.
   D.   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a Federal,
State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be elevated or
floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2.0 ft.) above the Highest Adjacent
Grade (HAG) at the building site or to the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE)
whichever is higher, as defined in section
12-2-1 . All other applicable provisions of section
12-5-2  shall also apply. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-5-4: STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Along rivers and streams where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided by
FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor flood fringe
areas are identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS
report, the following requirements shall apply to all development within such
areas:
   A.   Standards of sections
12-5-1  and
12-5-2 ; and
   B.   Until a regulatory floodway or flood fringe area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood at any point within the community. (Ord. 2019-09,
9-23-2019)
12-5-5: STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS AND FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Areas designated as floodways or flood fringe areas are located within the
Special Flood Hazard Areas established in section
12-3-2 . The floodways and flood fringe areas are extremely hazardous areas due
to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and
potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in sections
12-5-1  and
12-5-2 , shall apply to all development within such areas:
   A.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      1.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit (This is a No-Rise Analysis
and Certification); or
      2.   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   B.   If subsection A is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this title.
   C.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      1.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection
12-5-2 C; and
      2.   The encroachment standards of subsection A. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-
2019)
12-5-6: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO, AH, AR/AO, OR AR/AH):
Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in section
12-3-2 , are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3)
feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to sections
12-5-1 and
12-5-2 , all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth number
specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of
two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet (2')
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   B.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in subsection A so that the structure, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with subsections
12-4-3 C and
12-5-2 B.
   C.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 2019-09,
9-23-2019)
CHAPTER 6
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-6-1:    Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance
12-6-2:    Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits
12-6-3:    Severability
12-6-1: EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE:
This title, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions of
the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted August 1, 1978 as amended, and it
is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of the City of Bellevue enacted on August 1, 1978, as amended which are not
reenacted herein are repealed. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-6-2: EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a
Floodplain Development Permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator
or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this title.
Provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date
of issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
12-6-3: SEVERABILITY:
The title is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this title
be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of the title before the declaration of partial invalidity.
(Ord. 2019-09, 9-23-2019)
TITLE 13
ANNEXATION PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 1
ANNEXATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
13-1-1: Purpose
13-1-2: Applicability
13-1-3: Compliance With Idaho Code Section 50-222
13-1-4: Application Process And Fees
13-1-5: Concurrent Zoning Classification
13-1-6: Submittal Requirements
13-1-7: Certification And Review
13-1-8: Notice
13-1-9: Commission Review
13-1-10: Council Review
13-1-1: PURPOSE:
The City of Bellevue finds that the establishment of annexation procedures will
promote uniformity and certainty in annexation applications. Unless there are
compelling reasons not to, the applicant shall submit plans and applicable
studies for all components of the proposed annexation. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-
2021)
13-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
Any request for an annexation shall be controlled by the provisions of this
chapter. To the extent the procedures of this chapter conflict with the
procedures of Idaho Code §50-222 and other applicable state statutes, the
provisions of state law shall control. If the City initiates an annexation, the
provisions of this Chapter shall not govern. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
13-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH IDAHO CODE SECTION 50-222:
When an owner of real property or at least one holder of an interest in real
property requests annexation into a city, the process as set forth in Idaho
Code section 50-222 shall be followed. The request shall be placed on the City
Council's agenda and the Council shall make findings relative to which category
of annexation is being requested. The Council may also consider and determine
appropriate costs and fees associated with processing the request. The Council
shall refer the request to the Planning and Zoning Commission (Commission) for
them to make findings as outlined in
13-1-9, below. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
13-1-4: APPLICATION PROCESS AND FEES:
Once the process as outlined above in
13-1-3 has been followed and prior to Commission review of the project, a
formal application for the annexation of real property shall be filed with the
Bellevue Planning and Zoning Administrator ("Administrator") by the owner of
the real property or by at least one holder of an interest in real property for
which the annexation is proposed. As noted below in
13-1-7, the application materials will be routed to all City departments
including but not limited to police, fire, public works, library and clerk/
treasurer for review and comments. The applicant shall pay the non-refundable
application fee for the proposed annexation, as established by resolution of
the City Council. The applicant shall enter into an agreement with the City
that sets forth the time and manner of payment for City staff to review and
comment on the application, to assist and prepare any fiscal impact required
for an annexation and to prepare any necessary reports and findings. The
agreement shall also address the payment of costs for other professional
services related to the processing of the application including but not limited
to: legal services, outside consultants, engineering services, etc. If the
applicant fails to pay the costs as set forth in the agreement on a timely
basis, the City is authorized to suspend or if deemed appropriate, terminate
the processing of the annexation application. In the event an application for
annexation is approved and an annexation ordinance is adopted, the applicant
will be required to pay for all costs associated with the filing of the
annexation ordinance and the preparation of the legal description and a
professionally prepared map that designates the boundaries of annexed property
to be recorded with the county recorder pursuant to state law. (Ord. 2021-11,
8-23-2021)
13-1-5: CONCURRENT ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
The City shall concurrently with the application for annexation consider an
application for a zoning classification consistent with the requirements
(including notice provisions) and standards of chapter 10-4 of the Bellevue
Zoning Ordinance (Ord. 2015-02, 4-20-2015). The City may also consider any
other application by the applicant on the subject property under the City's
zoning or subdivision ordinances, provided the application for annexation has
been approved and an annexation ordinance has been adopted and published in
accordance with state law. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
13-1-6: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Except as otherwise provided, the application shall include or attach at least
the following:
   A.   Application fees established by resolution.
   B.   A statement indicating the size of the property in square footage and
acres.
   C.   A description of the proposed project, including the approximate number
and size of proposed lots.
   D.   Statements describing how the proposed project complies with specific
goals and policies of the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan.
   E.   Statements describing how the proposed project is compatible with
adjacent neighborhood(s).
   F.   Statements describing how the applicable natural resources (e.g., water
rights, water courses, springs, streams, wildlife, and access to public lands)
and natural hazards (e.g., avalanche, floodplains, and floodways) are
incorporated into proposed project and/or mitigated.
   G.   Statements describing what contributions and/or dedications the
applicant is willing to make as part of the proposed annexation.
   H.   A description of how the proposed annexation will protect Bellevue's
established or proposed wellhead protection zones.
   I.   A detailed description of how the annexation will impact the existing
municipal infrastructure and services (e.g., water, sewer, streets, library,
police, fire, and parks).
   J.   Statements of who will maintain the streets, alleys, parks, and
utilities (privately and publicly owned utilities) and how the maintenance of
the streets, alleys, parks, and utilities (privately and publicly owned
utilities) will be funded.
   K.   Unless the Administrator determines, in the Administrator's sole and
absolute discretion, one or more of the following studies are not warranted
based on the size, scope and impact of a proposed annexation, the following
studies shall be submitted:
      1.   Traffic study showing impact on adjacent streets and streets that
would serve the proposed project.
      2.   Fiscal Impact Analysis: A fiscal impact analysis or an updated
fiscal impact analysis to ensure the annexation will not have a negative fiscal
impact upon the existing citizens of Bellevue at the time of annexation and in
the future. The analysis may be submitted at the time of the application for
annexation, or when the application is reviewed by the Bellevue City Council
("Council") as set forth in section
13-1-9.
      3.   Floodplain study (if applicable).
      4.   Avalanche study (if applicable).
      5.   Wetland study (if applicable).
      6.   Wildlife study.
      7.   A Level I environmental study showing the presence of any hazardous
waste.
      8.   Contour map depicting fifteen percent (15%) and twenty five percent
(25%) slope lines measured at two- foot (2') intervals.
      9.   Water rights study (if applicable).
   L.   A list of names and mailing addresses of all property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the proposed annexation
and the names and mailing addresses of all easement holders within the proposed
annexation.
   M.   Signed agreement between applicant and City requiring payment of costs
associated with annexation. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
13-1-7: CERTIFICATION AND REVIEW:
The Administrator shall review the application to determine whether the
application is complete. Once the applicant and the City enter into a written
agreement for the payment of staff time and other professional services, and
the Administrator finds the application complete, the Administrator shall
certify the application as complete and shall submit the application for review
and comment to City departments and appointed recommending boards. Following
receipt of comments by the City departments and boards, the Administrator shall
schedule a meeting with the Bellevue Planning and Zoning Commission
("Commission") at its next regular available meeting for review of the
application by the Commission. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
13-1-8: NOTICE:
The City Clerk shall mail to each addressee in the list furnished by the
applicant a copy of the notice of the time and place of the hearing at least
fifteen (15) days before the date set for a hearing. The applicant has the
burden of providing to the City an updated and correct list of property owners
during the public hearing process. When notice is required to two hundred (200)
or more property owners or purchasers of record, alternate forms of notice may
be provided in lieu of mailed notice. Sufficient notice shall be deemed to have
been provided if the City provides, at the applicant's expense, notice through
a display advertisement at least four-inch (4") by two-inch (2") column in size
in the official newspaper of record of the City at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing, in addition to site posting on all external boundaries of
the site. The applicant shall reimburse the City for all mailing costs and
publication costs associated with providing notice hereunder. Any notice for
annexation which is mailed and published shall contain:
   A.   The time and place of the hearing.
   B.   A brief description of the land which is the subject of the matter to
be heard.
   C.   The purpose of the hearing and the proposed uses for the land.
   D.   Any other information, required by the Administrator, which is
necessary or desirable in the public interest. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
13-1-9: COMMISSION REVIEW:
The Commission shall conduct a public hearing to review the application for
annexation. The Commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances
of a proposed annexation and make findings of fact and conclusions of law for
the following criteria:
   A.   Whether the proposed annexation meets the requirements under Idaho Code
section 50-222 for the particular category being sought.
   B.   Whether the proposed annexation will be harmonious and in accordance
with specific goals and policies of applicable components of the Bellevue
Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Whether the proposed project is compatible with adjacent neighborhood
(s).
   D.   Whether the applicable natural resources (e.g., water rights, water
courses, springs, streams, wildlife, and access to public lands) and natural
hazards (e.g., avalanche, floodplains, and floodways) are incorporated into
proposed project and/or mitigated.
   E.   Whether the proposed annexation will protect Bellevue's established or
proposed wellhead protection zones.
   F.   Whether the annexation will impact the existing municipal
infrastructure and services (e.g., water, sewer, streets, library, police,
fire, and parks).
   G.   A finding that the impacts of the development will be offset by
contributions and/or dedications from the applicant.
The Commission shall also make a recommendation that the property sought to be
annexed should be zoned as one or more particular zoning districts, as more
fully described in the Bellevue Zoning Ordinance. The Commission shall forward
those findings and conclusions in writing to the Council and the applicant.
(Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
13-1-10: COUNCIL REVIEW:
   A.   Conduct And Notice Of Council Hearing: Upon receipt of the Commission's
findings of fact and conclusions of law, the Council shall schedule a public
hearing to review the application for annexation. Notice of the public hearing
shall be conducted in the same manner as the notice for a Commission hearing
pursuant to section
13-1-8 of this chapter. The Council shall have the right to request further
information deemed necessary by the Council at any time during the proceedings.
   B.   Findings: The Council shall review the Commission's findings of fact
and conclusions of law, the application, the supporting plans and
documentation, the entire record before and recommendations of the commission,
and comments from the public. The Council may require additional information,
including, but not limited to matters not addressed by the commission.
Thereafter, the Council may in its sole discretion, approve, or approve with
conditions, or deny the application for annexation.
   C.   Zoning: If the Council approves the application for annexation, the
Council shall then consider the application for a zoning classification and
consider any and all factors it deems, in its sole and absolute discretion,
important to determine whether an application for annexation shall be granted
or denied. If the Commission made negative findings related to the
Comprehensive Plan under section 13-1-8 and therefore did not make a
recommendation on zoning classification for the property sought to be annexed,
but the Council subsequently made favorable findings related to the
Comprehensive Plan and wishes to proceed with the annexation, the Council shall
remand the proceedings to the Commission for its recommendation on zoning
classification.
   D.   Decision: The Council has the sole and absolute discretionary right to
approve, approve with conditions or deny an application for annexation. In
addition, the Council is authorized to require, as a condition of approval,
that the applicant and the City enter into an annexation agreement providing
for the terms and conditions of an approved annexation. In the event a
subsequent development proposal materially differs from the development shown
in approved annexation, the annexation agreement shall provide that the
proposed development may be denied, that the applicant shall be responsible for
any increased annexation fees and/or that the property may be de-annexed. If
the Council elects to approve the application for annexation with or without
conditions, the Council shall also establish the appropriate zoning district(s)
for the annexed property in accordance with the procedures set forth in chapter
10-4 of this Code.
   E.   Appeal: This chapter shall not be construed to create a right to
annexation. The procedures set forth in this chapter are to aid the City in
determining if an annexation is in the best interest of the City but the
decision to annex is left at the discretion of the Council. Unless otherwise
provided by Idaho law, there shall be no right of appeal by an applicant from
an adverse recommendation by the commission or from an adverse decision of the
Council on an annexation application. (Ord. 2021-11, 8-23-2021)
CHAPTER 2
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
13-2-1: Findings And Purposes
13-2-2: Bellevue/Blaine County Area Of City Impact Boundary
13-2-3: Annexation, Area Of Impact
13-2-4: Applicable Plan Policies And Ordinances
13-2-5: Processing Of Land Use Applications In Bellevue/Blaine County Area Of
City Impact
13-2-6: Amendment Of Plan Policies And Ordinances
13-2-7: Renegotiation
13-2-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSES:
It is found and declared that:
   A.   Idaho Code section 67-6526, provides a negotiation process by which
jurisdictions shall adopt, by ordinance, a map identifying an area of city
impact within the unincorporated area of the county and a separate ordinance
providing for application of plans and ordinances for the area of city impact.
   B.   A negotiated Area of City Impact Agreement provides the citizens of
Bellevue and Blaine County who reside next to or near the Bellevue City limits
with a set of streamlined processes and procedures within the ACI. (Ord. 2021-
02, 1-25-2021)
13-2-2: BELLEVUE/BLAINE COUNTY AREA OF CITY IMPACT BOUNDARY:
   A.   The Bellevue/Blaine County Area of City Impact is the area designated
on the Bellevue/Blaine County Area of City Impact Boundary Map, adopted on
January 25, 2021, by The Bellevue Common Council Ordinance, 2021-01. The map is
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
   B.   In case property under single ownership is divided by the boundary line
of Bellevue/Blaine County Area of City Impact, if more than fifty percent (50%)
of a parcel is within the ACI, the entire parcel shall be considered within the
ACI. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-25-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-02, 1-25-2021)
13-2-3: ANNEXATION, AREA OF IMPACT:
   A.   Upon annexation of any portion of the Area of City Impact into
Bellevue, the provisions of this chapter shall no longer apply to said annexed
portion.
   B.   These provisions do not in any way constitute recommendations by Blaine
County for annexation, obligate the City of Bellevue to annex any land, or vest
any property within the ACI with any development right or privilege.
   C.   Annexation by Bellevue shall be limited to those lands lying within its
Area of City Impact. If the City of Bellevue wishes to consider annexing lands
outside of its Area of City Impact, it shall renegotiate its Area of City
Impact boundary with Blaine County. (Ord. 2021-02, 1-25-2021)
13-2-4: APPLICABLE PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The Blaine County Comprehensive Plan shall be taken
into consideration within all of the Bellevue/Blaine County designated Area of
City Impact.
   B.   Zoning And Subdivision Regulations: The Blaine County zoning
designations and Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances as amended, shall apply to
all Bellevue/Blaine County designated Area of City Impact. (Ord. 2021-02, 1-25-
2021)
13-2-5: PROCESSING OF LAND USE APPLICATIONS IN BELLEVUE/BLAINE COUNTY AREA OF
CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Within the designated Area of City Impact, the Blaine County Land Use
and Building Services Department shall send to Bellevue Community Development
Department notice of all County applications for subdivision plats, rezones and
conditional use permits, stream alteration permits, and any other land use
permits no later than thirty (30) days prior to County public hearing on such
application. For any natural resource extraction activity, the County shall
notice Bellevue no later than forty-five (45) days prior to the County public
hearing. The City of Bellevue may hold a public hearing if the City believes
public input is warranted prior to County hearing(s). Fifteen (15) days prior
to a County public hearing, Bellevue shall make any recommendations to Blaine
County in writing and shall cite Bellevue Comprehensive Plan policies, goals,
objectives, provisions, or other documentation supporting such recommendation.
Input from Bellevue shall not be binding or controlling on the County but shall
be treated as documentary evidence.
   B.   At the request of the Bellevue Community Development Department, a pre-
application meeting may be held jointly by City and County staff with the
applicant. (Ord. 2021-02, 1-25-2021)
13-2-6: AMENDMENT OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
All applications for County amendments to its Comprehensive Plan and
implementing ordinances which apply within the Bellevue/Blaine County Area of
Impact shall be sent to the City of Bellevue according to the following
process:
   A.   Amendment of Blaine County Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance and/or
Subdivision Ordinance.
Notice of all proposed amendments to the Blaine County Comprehensive Plan
Zoning or Subdivision Ordinance shall be forwarded to Bellevue Community
Development Department Administrator at least thirty (30) days prior to any
public hearing on such proposed amendment(s). Bellevue Community Development
Department shall determine whether or not such amendment(s) is in conflict with
the Bellevue Comprehensive Plan or other applicable ordinances. The Bellevue
Community Development Department shall notify the Blaine County Land Use
Department of such determination in writing prior to or at such public hearing.
Such input from the City shall be treated as documentary evidence.
If the determination is that the amendment(s) conflict with the ACI Ordinance
or directly or indirectly negatively impact City of Bellevue's services,
infrastructure or quality of life, then the Bellevue Community Development
Department may request renegotiation of an amendment to the Area of City Impact
Ordinance. (Ord. 2021-02, 1-25-2021)
13-2-7: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), Blaine County Board
of County Commissioners or the City of Bellevue may request, in writing, to
renegotiate any provision of this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30) days
of receipt of such written requests by each party, a meeting between the two
(2) jurisdictions shall occur.
   B.   In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(e), the governing bodies
shall undertake a review of the Area of City Impact Ordinance in ten (10) years
to determine whether renegotiations are in the best interests of the citizenry.
   C.   While renegotiation is occurring, the provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect until it is amended or a substitute ordinance is adopted by
Blaine County and Bellevue in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures
provided in Idaho Codes or until a declaratory judgment from the District Court
is final. Provided, however, that this chapter or stipulated portions thereof
shall be of no further force and effect if both jurisdictions so agree by
mutually adopted Resolution. (Ord. 2021-02, 1-25-2021)
