COUNTY CODE
of
BENEWAH COUNTY, IDAHO
2011
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-163, passed 1-13-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the County of Benewah County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-163, passed 1-13-2025. Ordinances
of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this
code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult
the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-129
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF BENEWAH, A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THE STATE OF
IDAHO, ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE BENEWAH COUNTY, IDAHO COUNTY CODE, ADOPTING AS A
METHOD OF PERPETUAL CODIFICATION THE LOOSE-LEAF TYPE BINDING TOGETHER WITH THE
CONTINUAL SUPPLEMENT SERVICE PROVIDED BY STERLING CODIFIERS; PROVIDING FOR THE
CONTINUOUS EFFECTIVENESS OF SAID ORDINANCE PROVISIONS, PROHIBITING THE ALTERING
OR TAMPERING OF SAID CODE, REPEALING CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; PROVIDING FOR
SEVERABILITY; AND PROVIDING THE ORDINANCE WILL BE EFFECTIVE UPON PUBLICATION.
BE IT ORDAINED by the county commissioners of the county of Benewah County,
Idaho, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the county
code of the county of Benewah County, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the county, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the county as enacted by the county commissioners.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official county code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the county clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
county code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official county code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the county code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official county code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: If any provision or section of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held by any court having jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining provisions or sections.
   Section 7: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
   PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, BENEWAH COUNTY,
IDAHO this 24th day of January, 2011.
ATTEST:   Board Of County Commissioners
      Benewah County
By: /s/      By: /s/   
J. Michele Reynolds, Clerk       Jack A. Buell, Chairman
Publication date: February 2, 2011
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BENEWAH COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of
Benewah County. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BENEWAH
COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the county commissioners
and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the
county as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2011 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2011 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the county code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the county
code. (2011 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of the
county clerk when directed so to do by order of the county commissioners. (2011
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby
repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and
other ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, public ways or other public places in the county; local
improvement districts; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
county; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2011 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the county code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2011 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current And Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2011 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code
or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or
any part thereof. The county board hereby declares that it would have passed
each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the board of county commissioners may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other county officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of Benewah County".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
county has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2011
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in the ordinances of the county,
and this code, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or
phrases:
COUNTY: The county of Benewah, state of Idaho.
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OR BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Benewah
County, Idaho.
IC: Idaho Code.
LAW: Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state
of Idaho, the ordinances of the county of Benewah, and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
MONTH: A calendar month.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety of the whole or a part
of such building or land.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidence of debt.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places,
squares, curbs, or other public ways in the county which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of this state.
TENANT; OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (2011 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section of this code, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1
:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment for each offense; or by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) with no imprisonment, when the
offense is designated as an infraction by state law or by any section or
provision of this code. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113, 18-113A and 31-714.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2011 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CONTINUITY IN GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Title
1-5A-2: Purpose
1-5A-3: Definitions
1-5A-4: Designation, Qualifications And Status Of Successors
1-5A-5: Powers And Duties Of Successors
1-5A-6: Recording And Publication
1-5A-7: Formalities Of Taking Office
1-5A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY CONTINUITY
OF GOVERNMENT ORDINANCE. (Ord. 68, 2-12-1990)
1-5A-2: PURPOSE:
The declared purpose of this article is to provide for the continuation of
effective, legally constituted leadership, authority and responsibility in the
offices of government of the county, should such designated officers be killed,
missing, disabled or for some other cause unable to discharge the duties and
functions of their office during and immediately after a catastrophic disaster.
(Ord. 68, 2-12-1990)
1-5A-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise clearly indicates, the
following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DISASTER: Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage, injury,
or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, windstorm, volcanic
activity, explosion, riot or hostile military or paramilitary action.
DULY AUTHORIZED DEPUTY: A person who is presently authorized to perform all of
the functions, exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of an
office in the event the office is vacant or at such times as it lacks
administration due to the death, absence or discharge of the incumbent officer.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to this article for
possible temporary succession to the powers and duties, but not the office of a
county officer in the event that such officer or any duly authorized deputy is
unavailable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
UNAVAILABLE: Either that a vacancy in office exists and there is no deputy
authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of the
office, or that the lawful incumbent of the office "including any deputy
exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a
vacancy" and his duly authorized deputy are absent or unable, for physical,
mental or legal reasons, to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the
office. (Ord. 68, 2-12-1990)
1-5A-4: DESIGNATION, QUALIFICATIONS AND STATUS OF SUCCESSORS:
   A.   Elective Officers: Within thirty (30) days following the effective date
hereof, and thereafter within thirty (30) days after first entering upon the
duties of his/her office, the chairman of the board of county commissioners and
each member thereof, the sheriff, coroner, county clerk, treasurer, assessor
and prosecuting attorney shall, in addition to any duly authorized deputy,
designate such number of emergency interim successors to his/her office and
specify their rank in order of succession after any duly authorized deputy so
that there will be not less than three (3) nor more than seven (7) duly
authorized deputies or emergency interim successors or combination thereof for
the office.
   B.   Appointed Officers: The board of county commissioners shall, within the
time specified in subsection A of this section, in addition to any duly
authorized deputy, designate for the appointed office of civil defense director
such number of emergency interim successors to this office and specify their
rank in order of succession after any duly authorized deputy so that there will
be not less than three (3) nor more than seven (7) duly authorized deputies or
emergency interim successors or combination thereof for each officer.
   C.   Review Of Designations: The incumbent in the case of those elective
officers specified in subsection A of this section shall review and, as
necessary, promptly revise the designations of emergency interim successors to
ensure that at all times there are at least three (3) such qualified emergency
interim successors or duly authorized deputies or any combination thereof for
each officer specified.
   D.   Qualifications: No person shall be designated or serve as an emergency
interim successor unless he may, under the constitution and statutes of this
state, hold the office of the person to whose powers and duties he is
designated to succeed, but no provision of any ordinance prohibiting an officer
or employee of the county from holding another office shall be applicable to an
emergency interim successor.
   E.   Status Of Emergency Interim Successor: A person designated as an
emergency interim successor holds that designation at the pleasure of the
designator; provided, that he/she must be replaced if removed. He retains this
designation as emergency interim successor until replaced by another appointed
by the authorized designator. (Ord. 68, 2-12-1990)
1-5A-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF SUCCESSORS:
If in the event of a disaster, any officer named in subsections 1-5A-4A and B
of this article and any duly authorized deputy is unavailable, his/her
emergency interim successor highest in rank in order of succession who is not
unavailable shall, except for the power and duty to appoint emergency interim
successors, exercise the powers and discharge the duties of such officer. An
emergency interim successor shall exercise these powers and discharge these
duties only until such time as the lawful incumbent officer or any duly
authorized deputy or an emergency interim successor higher in rank in order of
succession exercises, or resumes the exercise of, the powers and discharge of
the duties of the office, or until, where an actual recovery exists, a
successor is appointed to fill such vacancy or is elected and qualified as
provided by law. (Ord. 68, 2-12-1990)
1-5A-6: RECORDING AND PUBLICATION:
The name, address and rank in order of succession of each duly authorized
deputy shall be filed with the county clerk, and each designation, replacement,
or change in order of succession of an emergency interim successor shall be
made effective when the designator files with the county clerk the successor's
name, address and rank in order of succession. The county clerk shall keep on
file all such data regarding duly authorized deputies and emergency interim
successors and it shall be open to public inspection. (Ord. 68, 2-12-1990)
1-5A-7: FORMALITIES OF TAKING OFFICE:
At the time of their designation, emergency interim successors shall take such
oath and do such other things, if any, as may be required to qualify them to
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to which they may
succeed. (Ord. 68, 2-12-1990)
ARTICLE B. COUNTY OFFICES LOCATION
SECTION:
1-5B-1: Title
1-5B-2: Purpose
1-5B-3: Scope
1-5B-4: Authority
1-5B-5: Location
1-5B-6: Exception
1-5B-7: Penalties
1-5B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the ORDINANCE REGULATING THE
LOCATION OF BENEWAH COUNTY OFFICES. (Ord. 6, 12-16-1974)
1-5B-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to regulate and control the location of Benewah
County offices. The county officers will be better able to perform their duties
if all offices are maintained in one building. Persons having county business
will be able to go to one building and have all their needs satisfied. County
officers' duties require close cooperation with each other and having all their
offices in one building will be more convenient and thereby promote better
service to Benewah County and its people. County commissioners' duties require
them to supervise the official conduct of all county officers and see that they
faithfully perform their duties. In addition, Benewah County commissioners are
required to preserve, take care of, manage and control the county property.
Therefore, it is necessary that the Benewah County officers maintain their
offices in the same building to enable the Benewah County commissioners to
properly perform their duties. (Ord. 6, 12-16-1974)
1-5B-3: SCOPE:
The Benewah County officers who shall maintain their offices in one building
are those enumerated in Idaho Code section 31-2001, with the exception of the
county coroner, listed as follows: sheriff; clerk of the district court who
shall be ex officio auditor and recorder and ex officio clerk of the board of
county commissioners; assessor; prosecuting attorney; county treasurer who
shall be ex officio public administrator and ex officio tax collector; and the
board of county commissioners. (Ord. 6, 12-16-1974)
1-5B-4: AUTHORITY:
The board of county commissioners, under and pursuant to the powers implied and
vested in it by the Idaho constitution and Idaho Code sections 31-802, 31-807,
31-816, 31-828, 31-1001, 31-2001, 31-2009 and related sections, and in order to
carry out the work effectively and to perform properly the duties intended and
required by said laws, does hereby direct that the board of county
commissioners shall decide upon the location of the offices of the county
officers. (Ord. 6, 12-16-1974)
1-5B-5: LOCATION:
All county officers shall maintain their offices in the county courthouse so
long as space is provided as directed by the county commissioners, this being
necessary for the proper and effective performance of county business. (Ord. 6,
12-16-1974)
1-5B-6: EXCEPTION:
The board of county commissioners, when conditions change or exist, such as
lack of adequate space, may, in its discretion, provide for office space
outside of the county courthouse; maintaining as much as possible, the purpose
of this article that the county overall needs will be best served by keeping
its county offices centrally located. (Ord. 6, 12-16-1974)
1-5B-7: PENALTIES:
Any county officer who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this article may be subject to withholding of normal budgetary
items, to include, but not limited to, secretarial services, funds, supplies,
equipment, and other emoluments of his office; all or any part thereof at the
discretion of the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 6, 12-16-1974)
CHAPTER 6
MEDICAID CONFIDENTIALITY
SECTION:
1-6-1: Title
1-6-2: Background
1-6-3: Purpose And Scope
1-6-4: Employee Statement
1-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MEDICAID CONFIDENTIALITY
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 54, 5-23-1988)
1-6-2: BACKGROUND:
By enactment of Idaho Code section 31-873 effective July 1, 1987, the Idaho
state legislature obligated the counties of the state to participate in the
state medicaid program and further obligated the said counties to follow the
state and federal confidentiality statutes and regulations. (Ord. 54, 5-23-
1988)
1-6-3: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to comply with Idaho Code section 31-873 and
establish procedures for the safeguarding of confidential communications from
the state of Idaho, department of health and welfare, by requiring county
employees dealing with the state medicaid program to state in writing his/her
understanding of the confidentiality requirements. (Ord. 54, 5-23-1988; amd.
2011 Code)
1-6-4: EMPLOYEE STATEMENT:
Each county employee dealing with the state medicaid program shall execute a
statement to be retained by the board of county commissioners. Said statement
shall conform substantially with the following:
COMES NOW                     and hereby acknowledges and expressly agrees that
he/she shall observe the confidentiality of information requirements set forth
in Idaho Code Section 56-221 and 56-222 and the applicable Department of Health
and Welfare and Federal Rules and Regulations.
In Particular,                      understands that, pursuant to Idaho Code
Section 56-222, it is unlawful, except for the purpose directly connected with
the participation of Title XIX, Medicaid, and in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, for any person or
persons to disclose, or make use of, or to authorize, knowingly permit or
participate in the use of any list of names, or any information concerning
persons applying for or receiving, such assistance or services, directly or
indirectly derived from the records, papers, files or communications of the
state or county or subdivision or agencies thereof or acquired in the course of
the performance of official duties, specifically dealing with the participation
of the Title XIX, Medicaid program.
                                                   
                  SIGNATURE LINE
                                                   
                  NOTARY SIGNATURE
(Ord. 54, 5-23-1988)
CHAPTER 7
ST. MARIES AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Statement Of Purpose And Recitals
1-7-2: Boundaries Of Area Of City Impact
1-7-3: Modification Of Boundaries
1-7-4: Enforcement
1-7-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND RECITALS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish the physical
boundaries of an area of city impact for the city of St. Maries. This action is
performed in cooperation with the city of St. Maries.
   B.   Recitals:
      1.   a. Provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6526 allow the establishment
of an area of city impact to accomplish coordinated planning between the city
and county governments; and
         b.   Representatives of the city of St. Maries and Benewah County have
met to develop mutually acceptable terms which will govern an area of city
impact; and
         c.   The governing bodies of these respective local governments have
determined that the establishment of a mutually acceptable area of city impact
will benefit the health, safety and welfare of their respective constituencies.
      2.   The area of city impact defined by the boundaries established in
this chapter is hereby established as an area of shared jurisdiction whereby
community planning efforts are undertaken on a cooperative basis. A companion
ordinance to be adopted with this chapter shall set forth the particular land
use regulations which shall govern the defined area of city impact. (Ord. 84,
1-9-1995)
1-7-2: BOUNDARIES OF AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
Pursuant to the above referenced negotiations, the following described area is,
and shall be, unless changed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
the defined area of city impact for the city of St. Maries. A map of the area
encompassed by said area of city impact is attached to ordinance 84 and labeled
attachment A, which attachment is incorporated herein by reference as if set
forth in its entirety. (Ord. 84, 1-9-1995)
1-7-3: MODIFICATION OF BOUNDARIES:
The area of city impact boundaries established by this chapter may be modified
by mutual agreement in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures set
forth in the Idaho Code at any time. In the absence of mutual agreement to
modify the boundaries of the area of city impact, either jurisdiction may
unilaterally request that the question of boundaries be reopened for
negotiations in October of any calendar year. Any such request for change shall
be based upon a stated reason or reasons within the scope of the agreement
which shall serve as the basis for any renegotiation. The stated reasons must
address specific provisions of the comprehensive plan or land use ordinances
effective within the area of city impact and recite the changed circumstance
with respect to any such basis as grounds for renegotiation. No modification of
the area of city impact boundaries shall be effective unless or until the
specific procedures required by this chapter and the Idaho Code have been
completed and agreement has been reached regarding new terms for the area of
city impact. (Ord. 84, 1-9-1995)
1-7-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by either the city of St. Maries
or Benewah County by virtue of legal action initiated to require specific
performance with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 84, 1-9-1995)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Short Title
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Appointment, Term, Qualifications, Vacancies
2-1-4: Officers
2-1-5: Contracts And Contractual Services
2-1-6: Rules, Records And Meetings
2-1-7: Duties And Powers
2-1-8: Cooperation Of County Officials
2-1-9: Power To Incur Liability Limited
2-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY PLANNING AND
ZONING COMMISSION. (Ord. 60, 7-10-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
APPOINTIVE MEMBERS: All members of the commission.
COMMISSION: The Benewah County planning and zoning commission created by this
chapter.
GOVERNING BOARD: The board of county commissioners, Benewah County, Idaho.
(Ord. 60, 7-10-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
2-1-3: APPOINTMENT, TERM, QUALIFICATIONS, VACANCIES:
   A.   Commission Established: A planning and zoning commission is hereby
established in and for the county. (Ord. 60, 7-10-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Composition; Qualifications: The commission shall consist of seven (7)
members. All members must have been residents of the county three (3) years
immediately preceding appointment to the commission and must reside within the
county while serving on the commission. Members shall be selected without
respect to political affiliations. Provided, however, that no more than one-
third (1/3) of the members of the commission may reside within an incorporated
city of one thousand five hundred (1,500) or more population in the county.
   C.   Appointment And Compensation: Members shall be appointed by the
chairman of the board of county commissioners and confirmed by the governing
board. Compensation for members shall consist of reimbursement for travel
expenses while on commission business at the per diem and mileage rate set for
travel by county officials and/or county employees.
   D.   Term Of Office: All members shall be appointed for a term of four (4)
years, except that three (3) members of the original commission shall be
appointed for three (3) year terms.
   E.   Vacancies; Removals:
      1.   Vacancies on the commission shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointments.
      2.   Removal Of Members: Members may be removed, after a public hearing,
by a majority vote of the governing board.
(Ord. 60, 7-10-1989; amd Ord. 2024-159, 5-28-2024)
2-1-4: OFFICERS:
A chairperson shall be selected by a majority vote of the members of the
commission. The commission may create and fill such additional offices as it
may determine necessary for the proper conduct of the affairs and business of
the commission. The commission may appoint nonvoting ex officio advisors as may
be deemed necessary. (Ord. 60, 7-10-1989)
2-1-5: CONTRACTS AND CONTRACTUAL SERVICES:
The commission may contract generally and enter into contracts with the federal
government, the state of Idaho, the Panhandle area council, and other
government agencies and/or to hire consultants for the purposes of conducting
studies of Benewah County zoning problems and/or to do other things considered
essential to the accomplishment of the purposes of the commission, and may
receive grants and gifts in furtherance of such efforts, all subject to prior
authorization of the governing board. (Ord. 60, 7-10-1989)
2-1-6: RULES, RECORDS AND MEETINGS:
Written organization papers or bylaws consistent with Idaho Code title 67,
chapter 65, and other laws of the state for the transaction of business of the
commission shall be adopted. A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions,
studies, findings, permits, and actions taken shall be maintained. All meetings
and records shall be open to the public. At least one regular meeting shall be
held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a year. A majority of
voting members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. (Ord. 60, 7-10-
1989)
2-1-7: DUTIES AND POWERS:
It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to: (Ord. 60, 7-10-
1989; amd. 2011 Code)
   A.   Provide ways and means to obtain citizen participation in the
administration of zoning ordinances;
   B.   Prepare a procedure for processing zoning permits, namely: special use
permits, rezone applications, planned unit development proposals and variance
applications;
   C.   Recommend changes in the county comprehensive plan to the governing
board;
   D.   Hear all requests for amendment to the zoning ordinance, hold at least
one public hearing and make its recommendation to the governing board; and
   E.   Recommend changes to the zoning ordinance (if needed) to the governing
board. (Ord. 60, 7-10-1989)
2-1-8: COOPERATION OF COUNTY OFFICIALS:
All county officials shall cooperate with the commission and render all
reasonable assistance. (Ord. 60, 7-10-1989)
2-1-9: POWER TO INCUR LIABILITY LIMITED:
Neither the commission nor any member thereof shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the county except as authorized in section
2-1-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 60, 7-10-1989)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Beer And Wine Licenses
3-1-2: Days And Hours For Sales Of Liquor And Beer
3-1-1: BEER AND WINE LICENSES:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as the BENEWAH COUNTY BEER AND
WINE ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority And Purpose:
      1.   This section is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code
sections 23-1015, 23-1315, 23-1318, 31-714, 31-801 and 31-828.
      2.   The purpose of this section is to establish a time period within
which a decision must be made by the board of county commissioners following
submission of an application to said board for beer and/or wine license,
transfer or renewal.
   C.   Time Limits For Applications:
      1.   The board of county commissioners shall act upon an application for
a beer and/or wine license or a transfer or renewal thereof within fifteen (15)
days from the receipt of the application by the board.
      2.   The procedure for processing applications for beer and/or wine
licenses and transfers or renewals shall be governed by Idaho Code sections 23-
1015, 23-1315 and 23-1318, and any rules and regulations promulgated by the
board of county commissioners in accordance with Idaho Code title 67, chapter
52, the administrative procedure act. (Ord. 31, 11-28-1983)
3-1-2: DAYS AND HOURS FOR SALES OF LIQUOR AND BEER:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH
COUNTY SALE BY THE DRINK ORDINANCE. (Ord. 46, 6-9-1986)
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to implement the county option
to extend the days and the hours of sale of liquor by the drink pursuant to
Idaho Code section 23-927 as amended in the 1986 session laws, and the hours
for the sale of beer pursuant to Idaho Code section 23-1012 as amended in the
1987 session laws. (Ord. 51, 7-13-1987)
   C.   Authorized Days For Sale: In addition to the days for sale of liquor by
the drink authorized by the laws of the state, the sale of liquor by the drink
is hereby authorized for the following days:
      Sundays
      Memorial Day
      Thanksgiving
      (Ord. 46, 6-9-1986)
   D.   Authorized Hours For Sale: In addition to the hours for sale of beer
and liquor by the drink authorized by the laws of the state, the sale of beer
and liquor by the drink is hereby authorized until the hour of two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. (Ord. 51, 7-13-1987)
CHAPTER 2
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Authority
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Exemptions
3-2-5: Licensing Requirements; Purpose; Fee
3-2-6: License Denial Or Revocation
3-2-7: Records
3-2-8: Pawn Tickets; Tags
3-2-9: Time Limitations
3-2-10: Prohibited Acts
3-2-11: Right Of Entry
3-2-12: Stolen Or Lost Property
3-2-13: Penalty
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY PAWNBROKERS
REGULATING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted and adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
county by article XII, section 2 of the constitution of the state, and Idaho
Code section 31-714. (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AGENT: Any associate, partner, employee, director, officer, owner, manager, or
person with a financial interest in such pawnbroker business or secondhand
dealer business other than as a lessor, mortgagee, or vendee.
PAWNBROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or agent thereof
which, in the course of its business, loans money and receives as security
personal property as a pledge, or holds such personal property under a
conditional sales contract or an agreement to resell such personal property to
the borrower or his assignee at a price agreed upon, at or before the time of
such transaction; except, that this term shall not apply to banks, trust
companies, or bond brokers who are otherwise regulated by law and authorized to
deal in commercial paper, sales of stock, bonds or other certificates of value.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or agent
thereof, engaging in, conducting, managing, or carrying on the business of
buying, selling, or otherwise dealing in used or secondhand personal property,
rebuilt or reconditioned goods, wares or merchandise; provided, that this term
shall not apply to a person conducting a casual or isolated sale of one's own
personal property; provided further, that this term shall not apply to a retail
dealer of used or secondhand merchandise, whose stock of merchandise consists
of at least ninety percent (90%) of objects of art, curios or household
furniture or furnishings offered for sale on the basis, express or implied,
that the value of the property, in whole or substantial part, is derived from
its age and historical association; provided further, that this term shall not
apply to shops dealing exclusively in coins, currency and/or precious metals,
auto wreckers, used car dealers or dealers of new articles who allow their
patrons an exchange value on used or secondhand articles of personal property.
SHERIFF: The sheriff of Benewah County and all of his authorized
representatives. (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Stores dealing in secondhand clothing only, and all nonprofit, charitable
organizations are exempt from the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 47, 9-22-
1986)
3-2-5: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; PURPOSE; FEE:
   A.   Regulatory Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is regulatory. It is
intended to assist law enforcement agencies in tracing stolen property. It is
also intended to prevent disposal of stolen property through pawnbrokers and
secondhand dealers. The requirements placed upon pawnbrokers and others by
Idaho Code title 63, chapter 23 shall be followed. Any fees paid to the county
under said title 63, chapter 23 by pawnbrokers and others shall be allowed as a
credit towards the license fees due to the county by this chapter.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership,
association, corporation, or agent thereof, to act as a "pawnbroker" or
"secondhand dealer" as defined in this chapter, unless a valid license therefor
has been issued as provided for in this chapter and which license is in full
force and effect.
   C.   Causes For License Denial: No license shall be issued to any
pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, or agent thereof if any such pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer or agent thereof, or other person having a direct financial
interest in such business other than as a lessor, mortgagee, or vendee has:
      1.   Been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Had a license under this chapter revoked within five (5) years of
the date of application for such license.
   D.   Application For License; Investigation; Determination: All applications
for a license under this chapter shall be made to the county clerk in such form
and manner as she may prescribe, and shall be referred to the sheriff, who
shall cause an investigation to be made of the qualifications of the applicant.
Such investigation shall include all agents of applicants. Should the sheriff
determine that the applicant is qualified for a license under the provisions of
this chapter, he shall report to the county clerk that the applicant is so
qualified, and the license shall be issued by the clerk. Such license shall
expire one year from the date of its issuance unless sooner revoked or
surrendered. Should the sheriff find that the applicant does not meet the
qualification requirements under this chapter, the application shall be denied.
   E.   Transfer Of License: A license issued under this chapter is not
transferable from one person, partnership, corporation or association to any
other person, partnership, corporation or association. Such license may not be
transferred from one location to another without application to and approval by
the county clerk. Such license shall expire one year from the date of its
issuance unless sooner revoked or surrendered. Should the sheriff find that the
applicant does not meet the qualification requirements under this chapter, the
application shall be denied.
   F.   Age Restriction: A license shall not be issued to a person less than
eighteen (18) years of age.
   G.   License Fee: The county clerk shall collect, before the issuance of any
license or renewal thereof, an annual license fee of two hundred dollars
($200.00). (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-6: LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Cause For Revocation Or Denial: Any license issued under this chapter
may be revoked, and an application for issuance of a new license or renewal of
said license may be denied when it is determined that any applicant, licensee,
or agent of applicant or licensee, has violated any provision of this chapter,
or does not meet the qualifications of a licensee as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Notice To Applicant Or Licensee; Request For Hearing: Prior to the
revocation of any license or upon denial of an application for a license or
renewal thereof, written notice of the reason for such action shall be given to
the applicant or licensee by the county clerk. Such notice shall state that the
applicant or licensee may request a hearing on such decision by the county
board of commissioners. Such request by the applicant or licensee shall be made
within ten (10) days of receiving the written notice. Written notice shall be
deemed received two (2) days after the mailing of said notice or upon personal
delivery to the applicant or licensee. Should the applicant or licensee request
a hearing within such ten (10) day period, the applicant shall be notified in
writing by the county clerk of the time and place of the hearing. Such
notification of the hearing shall be deemed given two (2) days after mailing of
said notice or upon personal delivery to the applicant or licensee.
   C.   License Renewal: A license under this chapter may be renewed by payment
of the annual license fee. If a licensee seeks a renewal of a previously
expired license, a new investigation by the sheriff shall be required. (Ord.
47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-7: RECORDS:
   A.   Record Of Transactions Required: Each pawnbroker and secondhand dealer
shall maintain a record of each loan, purchase, or other transaction. This
record shall be maintained in an invoice book in a form approved by the
sheriff. The book must be in triplicate with invoice numbering maintained in
sequence. Each invoice shall have the following information legibly recorded
upon it:
      1.   The date, hour and place of the transaction.
      2.   The name of the person or employee conducting the same.
      3.   The name, age, street and house number, and a general description of
the person with whom the transaction is had, including height, weight, color of
hair and eyes.
      4.   The type of identification presented.
      5.   A description of the property bought or received in pledge, which,
in the case of watches, shall contain the name of the maker and the number of
both the works and the case; and in the case of jewelry, shall contain a
description of all letters and marks described thereon, and in the case of all
other personal property, the serial number of all articles so marked and any
inscriptions or identifying marks, as well as the brand or manufacturer's name.
      6.   The amount of money loaned or paid for the property.
      7.   The number of any pawn ticket issued therefor.
   B.   Legal Identification: The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer must require
legal identification and record the name, address, date of birth, social
security number and/or driver's license number, and physical description of the
person borrowing or selling the article from said identification. A driver's
license shall be the preferred method of identification.
   C.   Inspection Of Records, Goods: Such record, and all goods received,
shall at all times, during the ordinary hours of business, be open to
inspection by the sheriff and prosecuting attorney of the county, and any
representative thereof, and to any peace officer. Said records shall be
maintained and kept available for inspection for a period of three (3) years
from the date of the last transaction recorded therein. Said records shall be
kept at the place of business for which the license was issued.
   D.   Records Presented To Sheriff Daily:
      1.   Every pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall render the first carbon
copy of each purchase transaction to be presented to the sheriff to be
available on a daily basis.
      2.   Every pawnshop shall render the first carbon copy of each loan
transaction to the sheriff to be available on a daily basis. (Ord. 47, 9-22-
1986)
3-2-8: PAWN TICKETS; TAGS:
Every pawnbroker shall issue numbered pawn tickets for any property received by
him as a pledge or security for a loan, which ticket shall be considered a
receipt of such property. Tags shall be attached to all such property, and upon
each tag shall be written in legible figures, a number which shall correspond
to the number on the pawn ticket issued for said property. (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-9: TIME LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Every pawnbroker who receives personal property in pledge or as
security for a loan shall hold such property for redemption by the pledgor
thereof for at least ninety (90) days after the receipt of said property, and
shall not sell or assign his interest therein during said redemption period.
This time limitation shall not prevent the pledgor from redeeming the property
at any time during the redemption period. (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
   B.   No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall sell any item purchased for a
period of fifteen (15) days. This time limitation shall not prevent the
original seller from repurchasing any item at any time during that period.
(Ord. 49, 1-26-1987)
3-2-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Purchases From Or Loans To Minors: It shall be unlawful for a
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer or agent thereof to purchase any used or
secondhand property from any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. It
shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer or agent thereof to
accept any article as a pledge for a loan from any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Age Of Employees: It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand
dealer or agent thereof to allow an employee under the age of eighteen (18)
years to directly conduct a loan or sales transaction. An employee under the
age of eighteen (18) years may, however, assist such pawnbroker, secondhand
dealer or agent thereof in any other aspect of the business of such pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer.
   C.   Intoxicated Persons: It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer, or agent thereof to have any business dealings with an
intoxicated person or one who is obviously under the influence of alcohol and/
or drugs.
   D.   Dealer Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer or agent thereof to:
      1.   Fail to make a complete entry in the records as provided for in this
chapter for each and every loan, purchase or other transaction; or
      2.   Make any false entry therein; or
      3.   Falsify, obliterate, destroy or remove from his place of business,
such book or record within three (3) years following the date of the last
recorded transaction therein; or
      4.   Refuse to allow the prosecuting attorney of the county, or any
representative thereof, or the county sheriff or any peace officer engaged in
law enforcement within Benewah County, to inspect the records required herein
or any goods in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business, or
present items and pawn tickets to any Idaho peace officer; or
      5.   Report any material matter falsely to the prosecuting attorney of
the county or his authorized representative, or the county sheriff, or any
peace officer of the county; or
      6.   Having forms provided therefor, fail to make available, before
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of each business day, to the county sheriff a full,
true and correct transcript of the record of all the loans, purchases, or other
business transactions had on the previous business day; or
      7.   Fail to report forthwith to the sheriff the possession of any
property which such pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, or agent thereof, may have
good cause to believe has been lost or stolen, together with the name of the
owner, if known, and together with the date such property was received along
with the name, description, date of birth and other material information
required to be maintained by this chapter, of the person from whom the property
was received; or
      8.   Remove, or allow to be removed, from his place of business, except
upon redemption by the owners thereof, any property received, during the
redemption period except as provided herein; or
      9.   Violate any provisions of this chapter or other ordinance of the
county, having application to the business or persons herein regulated. (Ord.
47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-11: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The prosecuting attorney or the sheriff shall have the right at any time,
during normal business hours, to enter any premises licensed under this
chapter, and to inspect any article pawned or purchased by the licensee and
examine the same; and to determine that the licensee has and is complying with
all laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States, the
state of Idaho and Benewah County. If the licensee, or agent of such licensee
is present on the premises at times other than normal business hours, such
licensee or agent of licensee shall permit the prosecuting attorney, or the
sheriff or a duly authorized representative of either, to enter said premises
and inspect as authorized herein. (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-12: STOLEN OR LOST PROPERTY:
   A.   Disposition Of Stolen Property: Any article pledged or sold to a
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer which is subsequently determined by a law
enforcement agency to have been stolen shall be transferred to the custody of
such agency upon the request of the county sheriff or, at the direction of the
county sheriff, shall be returned by the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to the
true owner. The true owner shall not be liable to the pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer for any amounts expended by the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer with
respect to an article deemed stolen. Restitution for the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer will be sought by the prosecuting attorney from anyone
charged in connection with the stolen property. The pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer shall not return such property directly to the true owner until:
      1.   The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer receives written notice from the
office of the sheriff authorizing the release of the property to the true owner
and specifying the name and address of the true owner; and
      2.   The true owner, in person, executes a receipt therefor, and presents
proper identification showing his name, address, social security number and
signature.
   B.   Return To True Owner; Documentation: Upon the return of stolen property
to the true owner either by the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer or a law
enforcement agency, the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall complete the
documentation as may be necessary or required to effect the transfer of the
property including such documents pertaining to the registration of firearms as
may be required by local, state or federal authorities.
   C.   Holding Of Property By Dealer: Any article pledged or sold to a
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer which is subsequently determined to have been
stolen must be held by such pawnbroker or secondhand dealer if not transferred
as authorized herein except upon written authorization from the office of the
sheriff, the prosecuting attorney or an authorized representative of either.
(Ord. 47, 9-22-1986)
3-2-13: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or agent thereof who
violates the prohibited acts provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each prohibited act, including each incomplete entry or
false entry, shall be deemed a separate violation and shall be punishable
accordingly. (Ord. 47, 9-22-1986; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
JUNKYARDS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Junkyards As Public Nuisances
3-3-3: License Required; Renewal; Fee
3-3-4: Requirements
3-3-5: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
JUNK: Old or scrap metal, wood, glass, plastic, rope, rags, batteries, paper,
trash, rubber, debris, waste, junk, inoperable, dismantled, or wrecked
automobiles, boats or other machines, or their parts.
JUNKYARD: A piece of real property which is maintained, operated, or used for
storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation
of an automobile graveyard.
PRIMARY HIGHWAY: U.S. Highway 95; State Highway 60; State Highway 6; State
Highway 5; State Highway 3; the St. Joe Road; Milltown Road; Sanders Road; St.
Maries River Road; Minnaloosa Valley Road; Lovell Valley Road; Fairfield Road;
and Benewah Road. (Ord. 99, 9-13-1999)
3-3-2: JUNKYARDS AS PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Purpose: For the purpose of promoting the public safety, health,
welfare, convenience and enjoyment of public travel, to protect the public
investment in public highways, and to preserve and enhance the scenic beauty of
lands bordering public highways, it is declared by the county commissioners to
be in the public interest and for a highway purpose to regulate and restrict
the establishment, operation and maintenance of junkyards in areas near
highways within the county.
   B.   Public Nuisance: The county commissioners find and declare that
junkyards that are not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter are
public nuisances. (Ord. 99, 9-13-1999)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; RENEWAL; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate, establish, or maintain a
junkyard, any portion of which is within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
nearest edge of the right of way of any primary highway in the county without
obtaining a license from the board.
   B.   Renewal Annually: The license and each renewal shall be issued on a
calendar year basis and shall expire on December 31 following the date of
issuance.
   C.   Fee: A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be charged for each
original license or renewal license. (Ord. 99, 9-13-1999)
3-3-4: REQUIREMENTS:
Licenses may be granted for the operation of those junkyards within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the nearest edge of the right of way of any primary
highway if such junkyards:
   A.   Are screened by natural objects, plantings, fences or other appropriate
means so as to render them invisible from the traveled way of the highway
involved; or
   B.   Are located within areas which are zoned for industrial use under
authority of county planning and zoning authority; or
   C.   Are not visible from the main traveled way of the highway involved.
(Ord. 99, 9-13-1999)
3-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person, company, corporation or property owner who knowingly allows a
junkyard to exist in the county in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each calendar month in which the violation continues will
be a separate offense. (Ord. 99, 9-13-1999; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: General Applicability
4-1-4: Establishment Of Solid Waste Department
4-1-5: Establishment Of Solid Waste Fund
4-1-6: Rule Making Authority
4-1-7: System Use Required
4-1-8: Nonresident Use Of Drop Boxes
4-1-9: Rights To And Ownership Of Waste Products
4-1-10: Scavenging And Salvaging At Solid Waste Sites
4-1-11: Permits For Municipal And Private Disposal Systems
4-1-12: Responsibilities Of Commercial Haulers And/Or Producers Of Commercial
Solid Waste
4-1-13: Improper Disposal At An Approved Disposal Site
4-1-14: Penalties And Remedies
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide a framework for the solid waste
disposal system which operates now and will operate in the future within
Benewah County. It is the intent of the board of county commissioners, through
enactment of this chapter, to exercise all powers granted to them in the field
of solid waste management by relevant provisions of the Idaho constitution and
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The terms listed in this section shall have the meanings set forth herein,
throughout this chapter:
 
                                       Any business, industrial or commercial
                                       operation with a physical location in
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE GENERATOR:      Benewah County which generates solid
                                       waste in excess of one (1) cubic yard
                                       per week.
                                       Any person, corporation, partnership,
PERSON:                                association, firm, or other business or
                                       nonprofit entity.
                                       All matter or substances in either solid
                                       or liquid form which have been, or are
SOLID WASTE:                           intended to be, abandoned or discarded
                                       by their owner or possessor on private
                                       or public lands and as such may be
                                       additionally defined in the Idaho Code.
                                       All lands, sites, facilities, equipment,
                                       and manpower, necessary or used for, the
                                       collection, transportation, storage,
                                       treatment, processing, reuse, recycling,
                                       or other means necessary for the
                                       handling and disposal of solid waste.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM:           Said system shall include all approved
                                       public and private disposal sites and
                                       approved system components in existence
                                       at the time of adoption of the ordinance
                                       codified in this chapter and as approved
                                       subsequent to the adoption of the
                                       ordinance codified in this chapter.
                                       Any public or privately owned site,
                                       collection location, disposal facility,
                                       transportation element, or other
                                       functioning part of the solid waste
                                       disposal system for Benewah County where
                                       one or more phase of solid waste
                                       disposal is carried out by one or more
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM COMPONENT: persons. Component shall not include the
                                       solid waste receptacle provided by a
                                       commercial solid waste hauler or
                                       generator for use by a single business,
                                       customer, or client, unless said
                                       receptacle is to be removed from the
                                       site where it regularly rests for
                                       transportation to or emptying at another
                                       location. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
 
4-1-3: GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
From the date of approval and publication of the ordinance codified in this
chapter as required by law, all solid waste generated within Benewah County and
all solid waste generated elsewhere, but proposed or destined for disposal
within Benewah County, shall comply with the standards and procedures set forth
herein. All solid wastes shall be managed, whether during storage, collection,
transfer, transport, processing, separation, incineration, composting,
treatment, reuse, recycling or disposal, to prevent health hazards, public
nuisances, or pollution of the environment. This chapter does not regulate
discharges into the waters of Benewah County, except as those discharges are
not governed by state and federal law. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby established a Benewah County solid waste department which is
subject to direct supervision by. the board of county commissioners. The board
of county commissioners may delegate responsibility for the operation of the
department to an employee selected by the board. Said employee shall be
designated as Benewah County solid waste director and shall be responsible for
the day to day operations of the Benewah County solid waste department under
the supervision of the board of commissioners. The department shall be
responsible for carrying out the terms of this chapter and for implementing the
solid waste policies adopted by the board. The department shall perform such
duties as are necessary to operate the waste disposal system in Benewah County.
Said duties shall include maintaining liaison with local, state, and federal
regulatory agencies on behalf of the board of county commissioners.
The scope of authority to be exercised by the board of county commissioners
through creation of the solid waste department is intended to extend as far as
allowed by the Idaho constitution and by the statutes empowered and requiring
counties to be responsible for solid waste disposal within their jurisdiction,
including, but not limited to, Idaho Code, title 31, chapter 44. (Ord. 2023-
157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF SOLID WASTE FUND:
For the purpose of financing the operation of the solid waste department, there
is hereby created a solid waste fund to be maintained as a separate fund within
the Benewah County budget. This fund shall support all activities made
necessary for the continued operation of the solid waste system in Benewah
County. The board of county commissioners may, by resolution, establish special
accounts within the solid waste fund for stated purposes to meet anticipated
operational needs of the solid waste system as it deems necessary and proper.
The board of commissioners may choose from the various revenue options made
available to counties to support solid waste activities as outlined in Idaho
Code section 3 1-4404 and elsewhere. User fees may be charged to real property
owners and other system users as the board of commissioners deems necessary to
support solid waste system operation. In accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, the board of commissioners may establish fees at any time through
passage of a resolution setting forth the fees to be charged for the system.
Said fee resolution may be amended at any time to accommodate changes in the
fee system and operating policies deemed appropriate by the board of
commissioners. A resolution establishing fees shall remain in full force and
effect until subsequently repealed or amended. All previously adopted
resolutions of the board of commissioners not inconsistent with terms of this
chapter are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
If taxes are ever to be levied for support of the solid waste system, the rate
shall be established through the annual budget process and certified to the
state tax commission as required by law. All previously established levies not
inconsistent with terms of this chapter are hereby ratified, approved and
confirmed. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-6: RULE MAKING AUTHORITY:
The board of commissioners shall have authority to adopt and implement rules
necessary for operation of the Benewah County solid waste system. Said rules
may be adopted by resolution by the board of commissioners and may be enforced
by imposition of additional fees and charges to cover costs incurred through
noncompliance and/or by such other administrative remedies as the board of
commissioners deems appropriate in the circumstances. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-
2023)
4-1-7: SYSTEM USE REQUIRED:
From the effective date hereof, no person shall discard or dispose of solid
waste in Benewah County except by approved use of the Benewah County solid
waste system. The system shall consist of all components of the disposal and
collection system operated by Benewah County, the collection and disposal
systems operated by cities within the county, and such private disposal systems
as may comply with permitting requirements established by this chapter and
applicable state and federal regulations. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-8: NONRESIDENT USE OF DROP BOXES:
It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of the unincorporated area
of Benewah County or the owner of a Benewah County recreational property to
deposit any debris, litter, trash, garbage or other waste substances in the
drop boxes provided by the county or any contractor operating a solid waste
collection service for the county. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-9: RIGHTS TO AND OWNERSHIP OF WASTE PRODUCTS:
Upon delivery of solid waste to an approved disposal site, all rights of
ownership and exclusive possession to lawfully deposited solid waste shall vest
in Benewah County or in the owner of the site, if the site is not county owned.
Any waste disposal sites provided by contractors who collect or haul solid
waste pursuant to contracts with the county shall be considered county operated
sites for purposes of this section and ownership of solid waste lawfully
deposited and delivered to any such site shall vest in Benewah County. Benewah
County reserves the right to authorize recycling of materials in the waste
stream in accordance with standards and conditions to be set by the board of
commissioners.
Hazardous or improperly handled wastes shall remain in the ownership of their
prior possessor until they are disposed of in compliance with this chapter and
other applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-10: SCAVENGING AND SALVAGING AT SOLID WASTE SITES:
No person shall scavenge or attempt to salvage materials from waste delivered
to or deposited at a solid waste disposal site without the authorization of the
solid waste director. Nor shall any such party interfere or intercede in any
way with the lawful activities of residents of the county or disposal system
users who are delivering or depositing solid waste for disposal at an approved
solid waste site or with commercial haulers or county employees who are
removing or handling waste which has been deposited at an approved disposal
site. For purposes of this chapter, a solid waste disposal site shall include
any landfill, transfer station, or other disposal facility and any land upon
which containers are placed for public disposal of solid waste, whether said
land is publicly owned or is provided by a contractor performing pursuant to an
agreement with Benewah County. No person shall act in violation of the posted
regulations at any approved solid waste disposal site. No person shall dispose
of waste at a county operated disposal system component without having paid
his/her solid waste fees or other obligations on a current basis.
Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall be deemed to have
violated this chapter and shall be subject to the provisions of the penalties
and remedies section of this chapter. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-11: PERMITS FOR MUNICIPAL AND PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
No person shall operate a solid waste disposal system component without a
permit, properly issued by the board of county commissioners. This requirement
shall not apply to a municipal corporation operating a disposal system for its
residents or businesses, wholly within its own corporate limits or to a tribal
entity operating a disposal system, for its residents or businesses, wholly
within the boundary of the reservation.
No person shall collect solid waste for hire within the unincorporated areas of
the county unless said person first obtains a franchise (by way of permit or
contract) from the board of county commissioners permitting said collection of
solid waste. The board of county commissioners shall designate on any franchise
granted for the operation of a solid waste collection service within the
nonincorporated areas of the county whether or not said franchise is to be
exclusive.
Permits may be granted for operation of waste disposal system components upon
compliance with the procedural standards set forth in this chapter and its
attendant rules and upon compliance with applicable rules for disposal sites
and practices adopted by the board of commissioners and appropriate state and
federal agencies. Permit applicants shall bear full responsibility for showing
compliance with the standards applicable to their proposed operation of a solid
waste disposal system component. Fees may be charged for permit issuance as
established by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
No person shall dispose of solid waste within Benewah County at a location not
approved for disposal by Benewah County and state and federal regulatory
agencies unless a prior exemption has been granted in accordance with rules
adopted by the board of county commissioners. To obtain a permit for operation
of a disposal site, the applicant must show that it meets at least the
following criteria:
That the site proposed complies with requirements of the Benewah County zoning
ordinance and other applicable land use regulations of the county.
That the site has been reviewed and approved as an appropriate location for a
solid waste disposal site by the Panhandle Health District and any state or
federal agency with jurisdiction.
That an operations plan for use and closure of the site has been approved by
the Panhandle Health District and any state or federal agency having
jurisdiction.
That any private site operator has posted a performance bond to guarantee
adequate financial resources to assure proper operation and closure of the
site.
That operation and closure will comply with any regulations adopted by Benewah
County regarding the operation of solid waste disposal sites.
That the operator has provided adequate safeguards to see that no hazardous
wastes, as such are classified by county, state or federal regulations, are to
be disposed of in the solid waste disposal site. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-12: RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMERCIAL HAULERS AND/OR PRODUCERS OF COMMERCIAL
SOLID WASTE:
Any person who engages in collection, hauling, or disposal of solid waste
within Benewah County or who generates solid waste as result of business,
commercial or industrial activities shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter and any regulations adopted pursuant to authority established by this
chapter.
All Commercial Solid Waste Generators with a physical location within the
unincorporated area of the county shall be required to maintain a dumpster or
similar receptacle for the collection of commercial solid waste and shall
contract with a county approved Commercial Hauler/Commercial Collection Service
for transfer of such waste to the county transfer station.
Any contractor operating a Solid Waste Collection Service for the county shall
segregate collections from any non-county owed (i.e. private, municipal, tribal
or commercial) collection site such that the non-county owned solid waste may
be segregated from county owned, residential collection site solid waste
collections.
Failure of solid waste collectors, haulers and/or Commercial Solid Waste
Generators to comply with regulations implemented to carry out responsibilities
established by this chapter may result in imposition of a surcharge on fees
charged to the hauler for use of county operated disposal facilities. Such
failure shall also be considered a violation of this chapter, subject to all
penalties and remedies otherwise prescribed herein and in Idaho Code section
31-4410. (Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-13: IMPROPER DISPOSAL AT AN APPROVED DISPOSAL SITE:
Any person who deposits or disposes of any hazardous or otherwise dangerous
waste matter at. or provides for delivery of same to an approved solid waste
disposal site, shall be liable for the full costs of controlling and
eliminating any posed health hazard and/or properly disposing of said dangerous
materials, as may be incurred by Benewah County or any other public agency.
(Ord. 2023-157, 10-23-2023)
4-1-14: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
following penalties and/or remedies:
   A.   Civil Responsibility For Violation: To obtain compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, Benewah County may init iate civil action in a
court of competent jurisdiction. Said action may be either legal or equitable
in nature and may seek any remedy deemed appropriate by the board of county
commissioners or otherwise authorized by Idaho Code section 31-4410 to carry
out the purpose of this chapter.
   B.   Criminal Misdemeanor Liability: Any violation of this chapter shall be
considered a misdemeanor subject to punishment to the maximum allowed by Idaho
Code Section 18-113 or its successor. A separate violation shall be deemed to
have occurred for each action committed in violation of this chapter and for
each day that a violation has been delivered to the alleged violator. The
penalty provisions of Idaho Code section 31-4410 are incorporated into this
section and are made a part of it as if set forth fully herein. (Ord. 2023-157,
10-23-2023)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
BOATING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Purpose
5-1-3: Definitions
5-1-4: Compliance With State And Local Laws
5-1-5: Waterways Signs
5-1-6: No Wake Zones
5-1-7: Restricted Areas
5-1-8: Boating Requirements And Restrictions
5-1-9: Special Marine Event Permit
5-1-10: Exceptions; Emergency Conditions
5-1-11: Penalty
5-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY BOAT
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide for the protection of the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to provide regulations relating
to the use and operation of watercraft on the waters within the county. (Ord.
86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words and phrases appear in this chapter, they shall be
given the meanings attributed to them by this section. When not inconsistent
with the text, words used in the present tense shall include the plural, and
the singular; the word "shall" is always mandatory, and the word "may"
indicates the use of discretion in making a decision.
BUOY LINE: An invisible straight line existing between two (2) adjacent buoys.
MOTORBOAT: Any vessel propelled by machinery, which is powered by an energy
source other than human effort, whether or not such machinery is the principal
source of propulsion.
NIGHT: The period between one-half (1/2) hour after sunset until one-half (1/2)
hour before sunrise.
NO WAKE ZONE: An area that limits the speed of any watercraft to a speed that
will produce no visible track of turbulence as the watercraft moves through the
water.
OPERATOR: Any person who controls the direction or propulsion of any vessel.
OTHER WASTES: Includes, but is not limited to, debris, paper, litter, glass or
plastic bottles or containers, glass, nails, tacks, hooks, cans, barbed wire,
steel barrels, tires, boards, trash, garbage, lighted materials, wood debris,
grass clippings, leaves, dead animals, oil, tar, vehicles or any other matter.
RESTRICTED AREA: Any area designated by the Benewah County commissioners or
with their authorization as an area to be designated for swimming, scuba
diving, waterskiing or any other purpose deemed appropriate by the Benewah
County commissioners and marked with buoys or signs as set forth in this
chapter.
SEWAGE: Human bodily wastes and the wastes from toilets and other receptacles
intended to receive or retain bodily wastes.
SKI AREA: That area reserved for the landing or embarking of motorboats towing
skis, surfboards, freeboards or other devices ridden on or by any person.
VESSEL: Shall include every description of watercraft or other artificial
contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on the
waters of Benewah County, Idaho.
WAKE: Any visible turbulence or breaking wave resulting from the passing of the
bow of the vessel through the water.
WATERCRAFT: Those devices designed as a means of transportation on water. The
following devices are not considered watercraft: diver's aids operated and
designed primarily to propel a diver below the surface of the water; and
nonmotorized devices including inflatable air mattresses, single inner tubes,
and beach and water toys not designed as a means of transportation on water.
(Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAWS:
   A.   Operation Of Watercraft: No watercraft shall be operated on any of the
waters of the county except in compliance with the terms and provisions of this
chapter, and in compliance with all boating laws, rules, and regulations of the
Idaho safe boating act, Idaho Code title 67, chapter 70. The provisions of this
chapter relating to the manner and operation of watercraft shall apply not only
to such craft, but also to any waterskier or other person or device towed by
such watercraft.
   B.   Watercraft Requirements: No person shall operate or permit to operate
any watercraft on the waters of the county that is in violation of any state
boating statute or regulation. (Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-5: WATERWAYS SIGNS:
The county commissioners are authorized and directed to install, or cause or
permit to be installed, on the waters, or on the shores, of the county,
appropriately marked safety buoys or signs on or near the water at points
designated appropriate by the discretion and judgment of said county
commissioners. Such markers are required for the safety of the public, and it
shall be unlawful to tamper with, tie to, or molest so as to deface or destroy
or damage any marker buoy or sign. The county commissioners shall have full
authority to establish proper regulations as to size, style, marking, etc., of
any and all signs or markers. Said commissioners shall also have full authority
to cause any signs or buoys to be altered, changed, placed, or removed at any
time or place on the waters of the county. (Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-6: NO WAKE ZONES:
The county commissioners shall approve any and all no wake zones in the county.
Those areas shall be marked as set forth in section
5-1-5 of this chapter. No wake zones shall be:
   A.   The channel through the railroad bridge at Lake Chatcolet;
   B.   All river channels running into or out of an adjacent lake;
   C.   Cherry Bend boat park;
   D.   From the east end of Carney pole yard in St. Maries, upriver to First
Street;
   E.   At the St. Joe campground;
   F.   From the railroad bridge on the St. Maries River, upstream to the
Highway Three bridge;
   G.   At the sportsman's access on the St. Maries River;
   H.   At any marina or boat launch;
   I.   Within one hundred feet (100'), and beneath any bridge, structure, or
overhang; and
   J.   From Hell's Gulch Creek, upriver, on the St. Joe, or on any portion of
the St. Maries River. No motorboat twenty seven feet (27') in length or over
shall operate while causing a wake, nor shall any motorboats of that length run
two (2) or more abreast or follow within one hundred feet (100') of another.
(Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-7: RESTRICTED AREAS:
No motorboat shall be operated by any person as follows:
   A.   Within any swimming area designated and posted as such as provided in
this chapter, or within fifty feet (50') of any buoy marking such swimming
area.
   B.   Within any area posted as a no wake area, at a speed which produces a
wake.
   C.   Within any no wake zone while towing any person, ski, surfboard,
freeboard, inner tube, or other device at more than a no wake speed.
   D.   At more than a no wake speed when:
      1.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any shoreline of any lake; and
      2.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any swimmer; or
      3.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any diver displaying a floating
diver's flag; or
      4.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any other watercraft. (Ord. 86, 7-
10-1995)
5-1-8: BOATING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Speed: Speed limits on waters located in the county shall be as
follows:
      1.   During the day, when the speed is not otherwise restricted, the
speed limit shall be reasonable and prudent, but not in excess of fifty (50)
miles per hour.
      2.   A thirty five (35) mile per hour speed limit shall be in effect on
all rivers within the county during daylight hours, when not otherwise
restricted.
      3.   At night, on all waters within the county, the speed limit shall be
twenty (20) miles per hour, unless otherwise restricted.
      4.   No watercraft shall be operated in a manner that causes a dangerous,
or damaging wake.
   B.   Age Of Operator: No motorboat shall be operated by any person between
the ages of ten (10) and fourteen (14) years, unless the power installation is
fifteen (15) horsepower or less, except under the direct supervision of an
adult operator in the motorboat alongside said child. No child under ten (10)
years of age shall operate a motorboat except under the direct supervision of
an adult operator in the motorboat alongside the child.
   C.   Disposal Of Sewage Or Other Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any person
to dump, or to permit another to dump, discharge, or otherwise dispose of any
sewage, wastes or any other matter into or upon the waters of the county.
   D.   Use Of Public Docks: It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of
any watercraft to tie to, or otherwise secure said watercraft to any public
dock in the county for a period of time exceeding seventy two (72) consecutive
hours.
   E.   Mufflers: No motorboat shall be operated on the waters of the county
without a muffler or other similar device to prevent excessive or unusual noise
(85 decibels) or smoke.
   F.   Skiing: No person shall operate a watercraft from Cherry Bend, upriver,
while having in tow more than one skier, aquaplane, inner tube, or other
similar contrivance.
   G.   Inattentive Operation: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any watercraft or ski or otherwise be towed on the waters within the county in
an inattentive, careless, or imprudent manner in light of the circumstances, or
in a manner as to endanger any person or property. (Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-9: SPECIAL MARINE EVENT PERMIT:
No special marine event may be conducted on the waters of the county without a
special marine event permit issued by the county sheriff's office in accordance
with Idaho Code section 67-7030. Participants in special marine events will be
exempt from this chapter to the extent determined by the county sheriff's
office and described on the permit. (Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-10: EXCEPTIONS; EMERGENCY CONDITIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any watercraft being operated under emergency
conditions, or by any authorized agent of any law enforcement or fire agency of
the state of Idaho, or of the United States, while said agent is acting in the
performance of duty. (Ord. 86, 7-10-1995)
5-1-11: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 86, 7-10-1995; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Title
5-2-2: Purpose
5-2-3: Definitions
5-2-4: Offenses
5-2-5: Defenses
5-2-6: Enforcement
5-2-7: Penalties
5-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY CURFEW
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 92, 5-13-1996)
5-2-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Determinations:
      1.   The Benewah County commissioners have determined that there has been
an increase in juvenile violence, juvenile gang activity, and crime by persons
under the age of eighteen (18) in Benewah County; and
      2.   Persons under the age of eighteen (18) are particularly susceptible,
by their lack of maturity and experience, to participation in unlawful
activities and to be victims of older perpetrators of crime.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection
of minors from each other and from other persons, for the enforcement of
parental control over and responsibility for children, for the protection of
the general public, and for the reduction of juvenile criminal activities.
(Ord. 92, 5-13-1996)
5-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CURFEW HOURS: Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. every day until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of the following day.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least twenty one (21) years of age and specifically authorized in
advance by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses and office buildings.
REMAIN: Means to:
   A.   Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a peace officer or
the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 92, 5-13-1996)
5-2-4: OFFENSES:
   A.   Minor: A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the county during curfew hours.
   B.   Parent Or Guardian:
      1.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the county during curfew
hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian commits a separate offense if he or she fails
to come immediately to a location designated by a police officer to take
custody of a child after being notified to do so by a peace officer or his
designated agent.
   C.   Establishment Owner, Operator Or Member: The owner, operator or any
employee of an establishment commits an offense if he knowingly allows a minor
to remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours. (Ord. 92,
5-13-1996)
5-2-5: DEFENSES:
   A.   Minor: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection 5-2-4A of this
chapter that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by a government or civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married.
   B.   Establishment Owner, Operator Or Employee: It is a defense to
prosecution under subsection 5-2-4C of this chapter that the owner, operator,
or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police department that a
minor was present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and
refused to leave. (Ord. 92, 5-13-1996)
5-2-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in section
5-2-5 of this chapter is present. (Ord. 92, 5-13-1996)
5-2-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: A violation of subsection 5-2-4B or C of this chapter
is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 92, 5-13-1996; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Basis For Proceedings Against Minor: A violation of subsection 5-2-4A
of this chapter may form the basis for a petition or proceedings against the
minor pursuant to the juvenile correction act, Idaho Code section 20-501 et
seq. The court may utilize any of the dispositional alternatives provided by
Idaho law for the violation of a status offense.
   C.   Court Ordered Restitution: The court may order restitution to Benewah
County, or other appropriate agencies, for any costs reasonably incurred by the
county, or other appropriate agencies, in caring for the child, including, but
not limited to, wages of police officers, law enforcement officials,
transportation and attendant care charges, which resulted from a violation of
subsection 5-2-4A or B of this chapter. (Ord. 92, 5-13-1996)
CHAPTER 3
LIVESTOCK CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Title
5-3-2: Purpose
5-3-3: Definitions
5-3-4: Livestock At Large
5-3-5: Livestock Grazing On Property Of Others
5-3-6: Causing Livestock To Escape
5-3-7: Fence Regulations
5-3-8: Duty Of Peace Officers
5-3-9: Impoundment; Reclamation; Sale
5-3-10: Authorization To Contract
5-3-11: Construction Against Strict Liability
5-3-12: Penalties
5-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY LIVESTOCK
CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the running at large of
livestock. The presence of any livestock running at large within the limits of
the county is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The board finds that
such livestock pollute water sources, cause injuries, deaths, and damage to
both persons and property. The board further finds that any livestock at large
is a threat to the health of the people of the county and to the safety and
well being of persons and property alike and prohibits the presence of
livestock at large within the limits of the county. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-
11-1977)
5-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the custodian of the livestock, and it shall not
mean that the livestock was under the immediate control of the custodian by
means of enclosure, leash, rope, or other means of immediate effective control.
BOARD: The Benewah County board of county commissioners.
COUNTY: Benewah County, Idaho.
CUSTODIAN: The person, firm, corporation or any other entity owning or
otherwise having the care, custody or control of any livestock.
LIVESTOCK: Horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, donkeys, and/or swine.
PREMISES: The property upon which the custodian keeps or maintains his
livestock, whether such property is owned, rented, leased, or otherwise made
available to the custodian for his livestock.
RUN OR RUNNING: Being present and does not refer solely to the actual activity
of rapid movement.
SHERIFF, DEPUTY SHERIFF, CITY POLICE: The sheriff or a deputy sheriff of the
county. "City police" means the local law enforcement agency of any city, town
or village, whether incorporated or not, within the limits of the county. (Ord.
13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-4: LIVESTOCK AT LARGE:
   A.   Permitting Livestock To Run At Large: A custodian shall not permit his
livestock to run at large on the public roads or highways, nor upon unenclosed
premises, nor upon the lands of others without their permission.
   B.   Prima Facie Evidence: Any livestock at large, in or upon any of the
places prohibited in this chapter, is prima facie evidence that such livestock
is running at large in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-
11-1977)
5-3-5: LIVESTOCK GRAZING ON PROPERTY OF OTHERS:
No custodian shall permit his livestock to be herded, kept, or otherwise
detained for the purpose of grazing or any other purpose on the property of
another without the other's permission. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-6: CAUSING LIVESTOCK TO ESCAPE:
Any person who knowingly leaves open, cuts or tears down, or breaks a fence or
gate and as a result of which livestock are able to escape their enclosure,
shall be, for purposes of this chapter only and then only to the extent of any
penalties imposed by this chapter whether in the form of fines, impounding,
caring, feeding, or rounding up such livestock, considered the custodian of
such livestock. The fact that a fence or gate was left open, cut or torn down,
or broken is prima facie evidence that such was done knowingly. (Ord. 13, 8-8-
1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-7: FENCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lawful Fence Required: It shall be the responsibility of the custodian
to erect and keep in good repair a lawful fence around the premises. In the
event that two (2) or more custodians share adjoining premises, the
responsibility of erecting and keeping in good repair said fence shall be
determined by the provisions of Idaho Code section 35-104 as it is presently
enacted, including all amendments or reenactments which are now or may
hereafter be enacted or adopted.
   B.   Lawful Fence Determination: For purposes of this chapter, lawful fences
shall be determined by Idaho Code section 35-102 as it is presently enacted,
including all amendments or reenactments which are now or may hereafter be
enacted or adopted. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-8: DUTY OF PEACE OFFICERS:
It is hereby made the duty of the sheriff, any deputy sheriff, or any city
police officer, within their respective jurisdiction, to complain against any
custodian violating any of the sections contained in this chapter. This section
shall not be read to limit the right of a citizen's arrest. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977,
eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-9: IMPOUNDMENT; RECLAMATION; SALE:
   A.   Costs Of Impounding: In addition to the fines provided for herein for
any violation of this chapter, a custodian shall also be liable for all costs
incurred in rounding up, impounding, feeding, caring for, and disposing of his
livestock found at large. To the extent it believes necessary, the sheriff's
department is hereby authorized to hire hands, trucks, and equipment for the
purpose of rounding up and impounding any livestock found at large.
   B.   Notification Of Impoundment: Within twenty four (24) hours of the time
that the sheriff's department becomes cognizant of the identity of the
custodian of impounded livestock, the sheriff's department will personally
notify such custodian, either by phone or in person, that his livestock is so
impounded. In the event that the sheriff's department is unable to give
personal notice within said twenty four (24) hour period, it shall cause such
notice to be published at least once a week for a period of at least two (2)
weeks in a newspaper published in the county, and also mail a certified letter
to the last known address of the custodian. If notice is given by publication,
the custodian shall have until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the day
following the day of the second publication to claim or disclaim custodianship.
If notice is given personally, the custodian shall have until twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight of the day following such notice to claim or disclaim
custodianship. Silence shall be accepted as a disclaimer.
   C.   Contents Of Impoundment Notification: The notice required in subsection
B of this section shall contain the types of brands and marks found upon the
livestock, the sex, and the kind of livestock, as well as the place where the
livestock was rounded up and the place where it is being impounded. The notice
shall also inform the custodian that he has a right to view and inspect the
livestock for purposes of determining custodianship.
   D.   Unclaimed Livestock; Disposal: If impounded livestock is not claimed
within the period provided for in subsection B of this section, it shall be
sold at public auction to the highest bidder, with notice of the sale given as
provided in Idaho Code section 11-302 as it is presently enacted, including all
amendments or reenactments which are now or may hereafter be enacted or
adopted. If the livestock are not of sufficient value, in the discretion of the
sheriff's department, to justify the costs of a sale, the sheriff's department
may dispose of the livestock by the cheapest means possible.
   E.   Proceeds Of Sale: The proceeds of any sale under subsection D of this
section are to be used to satisfy any fines imposed by this chapter, plus any
costs incurred for rounding up, impounding, feeding, or caring for such
livestock. If any money from such sale remains after the above costs are
satisfied, such money shall be turned over to the county clerk and deposited in
the county's current expense fund. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-10: AUTHORIZATION TO CONTRACT:
The sheriff's department is hereby authorized to contract with any resident of
the county for the purpose of keeping impounded livestock upon the land of such
resident until reclamation or disposal of such livestock. Such resident shall
provide for the ordinary care and feeding of the livestock while in the care of
such resident. However, such resident shall not be liable for special care or
feeding that may be required of some livestock. Further, such resident is not
obligated to turn over any livestock to its custodian, nor to anyone else,
until all costs have been paid in full for rendered services, including
sheriff's costs. In cases of public auction, such auction shall not constitute
a turning over to the sheriff, nor to the subsequent purchaser. (Ord. 13, 8-8-
1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-11: CONSTRUCTION AGAINST STRICT LIABILITY:
Nothing in this chapter is to be construed as imposing strict liability in tort
against a violator. Any civil action arising from livestock running at large is
to be determined on the basis of the laws pertaining to civil actions and not
on the basis of a violation of this chapter, anything contained in this chapter
to the contrary notwithstanding. (Ord. 13, 8-8-1977, eff. 8-11-1977)
5-3-12: PENALTIES:
   A.   For a first violation of this chapter, the violator may be fined up to
five dollars ($5.00) per animal. For a second violation of this chapter, the
violator may be fined up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per animal,
notwithstanding that the livestock involved may not be the same livestock as
were involved in the previous violation. For a third violation of this chapter,
the violator may be fined up to seventy five dollars ($75.00) per animal,
notwithstanding that the livestock involved may not be the same livestock as
were involved in the previous violations. For a fourth violation of this
chapter, the violator may be fined up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
animal, notwithstanding that the livestock involved may not be the same
livestock as were involved in the previous violations. In no event shall the
total fine imposed for each violation of this chapter exceed the sum of three
hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 14, 9-12-1977, eff. 9-15-1977)
   B.   A fifth or subsequent violation shall constitute a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall subject the violator to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, notwithstanding that the livestock involved may not be the
same livestock involved in the previous violations. (Ord. 14, 9-12-1977, eff.
9-15-1977; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Each day upon which a violation of this chapter occurs shall constitute
a separate violation. (Ord. 14, 9-12-1977, eff. 9-15-1977)
CHAPTER 4
ASSEMBLIES AND ROCK FESTIVALS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Intent
5-4-2: Permit, Application And Fee
5-4-3: Submission Of Plans For Approval
5-4-4: Conditions For Issuance Of Permit
5-4-5: Noncompliance Constitutes Public Nuisance
5-4-6: Penalty
5-4-1: INTENT:
It is necessary for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the
general public to license and regulate the advertising, permitting or
conducting of certain educational, religious, entertainment or amusement
activities which will or can be reasonably expected to disturb the ordinary
peace and quiet of the inhabitants of residences, dwelling houses or other
ordinary places of human habitation, or which will or can be reasonably
expected to adversely affect the health, safety or welfare of the general
public. (Amendment to Ord. 1, 6-10-1974)
5-4-2: PERMIT, APPLICATION AND FEE:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, landowner or
lessor to allow, conduct, permit, advertise or cause to be conducted, permitted
or advertised any entertainment, religious, educational or amusement activity
or activities outside the municipal boundaries of the incorporated cities
within Benewah County, and which said activity or activities will or can
reasonably be expected to attract an outdoor gathering or assembly of five
hundred (500) or more persons at any one time (whether or not a charge or
contribution is required for admission) unless a valid county permit has first
been obtained, authorizing and permitting the conduct of such activity or
activities.
      2.   Provided, however, that no such permit shall be required for any
such activity or activities authorized under any valid lease of real property
owned by Benewah County, the state of Idaho, or any political subdivision
thereof.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Application Requirements: Written application for any permit to
conduct the activities regulated by this chapter shall be made to the board of
county commissioners not less than sixty (60) days prior to the date upon which
such activities are to commence. Said application shall include:
         a.   The name of the person, persons, partnership, corporation, or
organization on whose behalf such application is made;
         b.   The names and addresses of all persons having any proprietary
interest in any such partnership, corporation or organization;
         c.   The principal place of business of any such partnership,
corporation, or organization;
         d.   The legal description of the land to be occupied or utilized by
such activities, together with the address of the owner or lessee thereof and a
verified consent by said owner (if other than applicant) permitting the
activity or activities upon said real property upon the dates for which
application is made;
         e.   A description of the type and nature of the educational,
religious, entertainment or amusement activity or activities for which a permit
is sought;
         f.   The date or dates upon which such activity or activities are
proposed to be conducted; and
         g.   The maximum number of people expected to attend, view, and
participate in said activity or activities on each date for which applied.
      2.   Notice Of Approval Or Disapproval: Written notice of approval or
disapproval of said application shall be given to the applicant no later than
twenty (20) days after the application has been filed. Any notice of denial
shall state the regulations, laws, and/or conditions upon which denial is based
and the nature of the noncompliance by the applicant. Within ten (10) days
after mailing of such notice, the applicant may show that such noncompliance
has been remedied; upon failure of the applicant to do so, the denial shall be
final and conclusive.
   C.   Application Fee: The basic permit fee which shall accompany any
application hereunder shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00), which said fee
shall be retained or returned by the county at the county's discretion whether
or not a permit be granted, denied or withdrawn. (Amendment to Ord. 1, 6-10-
1974)
5-4-3: SUBMISSION OF PLANS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Cooperation With Agency: Whenever approval by any governmental agency
other than Benewah County is required hereunder, the applicant for such
approval shall be required to cooperate fully with such agency to ensure that a
full review of the proposals may be accomplished by such agency within the
twenty (20) day time limit set out in subsection 5-4-2B2 of this chapter.
   B.   Physical Facility: When any type of physical facility is required or
subject to approval hereunder, a permit may be granted (subject to withdrawal)
based upon specific plans being proposed, submitted and approved hereunder. All
such facilities constructed under authority of such permit shall be in
existence at least five (5) days prior to the commencement of the activity or
activities for which the permit is granted and shall be subject to inspection
by the approving agency or agencies. Should the actual facility or construction
fail to meet the standards approved in the proposed plans, the permit may be
withdrawn. Withdrawal shall be effected by mailing of written notice to the
address of the applicant specifying the reasons for such withdrawal. (Amendment
to Ord. 1, 6-10-1974)
5-4-4: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Permits shall be issued hereunder only when the conditions enumerated in this
section have been fulfilled by the applicant.
   A.   Health And Sanitary Facilities: No permit shall be granted hereunder
unless the applicants obtain the written approval of the Panhandle health
district I in and for the state of Idaho, which said approvals shall indicate
that the applicants for said permit have complied with all rules, regulations,
laws and ordinances of the state board of health, the Benewah County board of
health, the state of Idaho and the Benewah County sanitary code. Such approval
shall indicate the type and adequacy of water supply to be provided, the type
and adequacy of toilet, waste collection and washing facilities to be provided,
and the type and adequacy of health and medical facilities to be provided, and
if there is to be food or drink served on the premises, the type and adequacy
of food and drink services and facilities to be furnished.
   B.   Fire Protection: No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the board
has received the written approval of the fire protection district in which the
proposed activity or activities are to be held. Such approval shall indicate
that the applicant has complied with all applicable fire prevention
regulations, laws and requirements and shall state the manner in which the
applicant has complied therewith.
   C.   Distance From Habitation: No permit shall be granted for any activity
or activities regulated hereunder which are proposed to be held within one
thousand (1,000) yards of any schoolhouse or church; or within five hundred
(500) yards of any occupied house, residence or other place of human
habitation. Provided, however, that such restriction with respect to occupied
houses, residences and other places of human habitation may be waived upon
proof by the applicant that the occupants of such places have given their
written consent to the conduct of such activity or activities.
   D.   Parking Facilities: No permit shall be granted for any activity or
activities regulated hereunder unless the applicant shows to the board of
county commissioners, by means of a scale drawing, that adequate parking
facilities have been made available within or adjacent to the location for
which the permit is requested. Such parking facilities shall provide parking
space for one vehicle for each four (4) persons expected or reasonably expected
to attend, view or participate in the proposed activity or activities. Such
parking facilities shall be provided off public roads or highways and adequate
ingress and egress shall be provided to and from such parking areas.
   E.   Hours Of Operation: No permit issued hereunder shall authorize any
activity or activities regulated hereby between the hours of one minute after
twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of any day; said
permit shall specify on its face the day, or days, and hours within which such
activity or activities may be held.
   F.   Public Safety: No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the
applicant has obtained the written approval of the county sheriff, indicating
compliance with following conditions:
      1.   That adequate traffic control and crowd protection policing have
been contracted for or otherwise provided by the applicant;
      2.   That traffic and crowd control personnel shall be named persons
deputized by the county sheriff, or meeting the criteria for becoming so
deputized;
      3.   That the applicant will provide at least one traffic control officer
for each five hundred (500) persons expected or reasonably expected to be in
attendance at any one time during the event;
      4.   That the applicant will provide at least one crowd control officer
for each two hundred fifty (250) persons expected or reasonably expected to be
in attendance at any time during the event; provided, however, that if at any
time during the said event the size of the crowd exceeds by twenty percent
(20%) the number of persons represented by the applicant as expected to be in
attendance, the sheriff shall have the discretion to require the limitation of
further admissions.
   G.   Cash Bond And Indemnification: No permit shall be issued hereunder
unless the applicant has on deposit with the county treasurer a cash or surety
bond as set out hereinbelow indemnifying the county or any political
subdivision within said county for costs incurred by reason of the expenses of
extraordinary law enforcement, damage to public property, or the cost of
providing any extraordinary sanitation or health services provided or caused by
the holding of the activity or activities for which permit is applied. The
amount of such bond shall be five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for gatherings
where the total attendance is expected to be less than five thousand (5,000)
persons and such amount shall be increased in increments of two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each additional two thousand five hundred
(2,500) persons expected. The bond or its balance shall be exonerated or
returned when the county commissioners certify to the county treasurer that
either: 1) no damage has been done; or 2) the total of such costs or damage in
the event such items total less than the bond amount. (Amendment to Ord. 1, 6-
10-1974)
   H.   Liability Insurance: No permit shall be issued hereunder unless the
applicant has furnished evidence of liability insurance coverage providing
policy limits consistent with Idaho counties risk management program (ICRMP),
which policy shall name Benewah County as an additional insured. (Amendment to
Ord. 1, 6-10-1974; amd. 2011 Code)
5-4-5: NONCOMPLIANCE CONSTITUTES PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Noncompliance with the minimum health, sanitation and safety provisions
required herein, or failure to comply with the terms and conditions hereunder
shall constitute a public nuisance, and the person responsible therefor shall
be subject to all criminal and civil remedies for such. (Amendment to Ord. 1,
6-10-1974)
5-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, shall wilfully fail
to continue to comply with the conditions herein set forth, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Amendment to Ord. 1, 6-10-1974; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCE AND UNATTENDED DOGS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Title
5-5-2: Purpose
5-5-3: Nuisance Dogs
5-5-3-1: Nuisance Dog Regulations
5-5-3-2: Impoundment Of Nuisance Dogs
5-5-3-3: Penalties For Violation Of Nuisance Dog Regulations
5-5-4: Unattended Dogs
5-5-4-1: Unattended Dog Regulations
5-5-4-2: Impoundment Of Unattended Dogs
5-5-4-3: Penalties For Violation Of Unattended Dog Regulations
5-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY NUISANCE AND
UNATTENDED DOGS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-2018; Ord. 2021-150, 8-31-2021)
5-5-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to provide for the health, safety, welfare, the rights
of the people of Benewah County to the peaceful enjoyment of their property,
and to ensure that the people of Benewah County have an environment free from
nuisances that jeopardize or degrade the quality of life. (Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-
2018)
5-5-3: NUISANCE DOGS:
5-5-3-1: NUISANCE DOG REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner or person in control of any dog to allow
or otherwise permit any dog to:
      1.   Bark, howl, or make such other sound when the dog’s sound and source
is plainly audible and discernible across real property boundaries and the
sound can be heard for more than five (5) consecutive or non-consecutive
minutes in any 10-minute period of time;
      2.   Chase or attack passersby or vehicles; or
      3.   Attack domestic animals owned by another.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dog that, at the
time of the sound generation, was responding to pain or injury or was
protecting itself, its offspring, livestock under its care, or a person from an
actual threat; when the animal is a police dog that is engaged in the
performance of its duties at the time; or when the dog is in the act of hunting
accompanied by a person at the time of making sounds as set forth in subsection
1(A)(1). (Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-2018; Ord. 2021-150, 8-31-2021)
5-5-3-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF NUISANCE DOGS:
   A.   If a third violation of this section has occurred within two (2) years,
the dog may be impounded.
   B.   The owner or person in control of the dog impounded is responsible for
the reasonable costs of the impoundment and the care, keeping, adoption or
disposal of the dog. Reasonable costs shall include, but shall not be limited
to, transportation, medical, and shelter costs.
   C.   All costs shall be paid in full before the impounded dog is released.
   D.   If the costs are not paid in full and the dog is not retrieved by the
owner within five (5) business days of notice of impoundment, or from entry of
a court order releasing the impounded dog to the owner if applicable, the dog
shall be declared abandoned and be made available for adoption or disposal.
(Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-2018; Ord. 2021-150, 8-31-2021)
5-5-3-3: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF NUISANCE DOG REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any violation of this section shall be punishable as follows,
notwithstanding that the dog involved may not be the same animal as was
involved in the previous violation:
      1.   The first violation of this section shall constitute an infraction,
with a set fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus court costs.
      2.   The second violation of this section within two (2) years shall
constitute an infraction, with a set fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus
court costs.
      3.   The third violation of this section within two (2) years shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable fine of double the penalty of the previous
violation, up to a maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus court
costs, and the costs incurred for the impoundment and the care, keeping and
adoption or disposal of the dog, if any, and be subject to impoundment and
adoption or disposal of the dog. Costs shall include, but shall not be limited
to, transportation, medical, and shelter costs.
   B.   Upon a judgment of conviction for any violation of this section, the
court may also enter a civil judgment for any costs incurred for the
impoundment and the care, keeping and adoption or disposal of the dog. Costs
shall include, but shall not be limited to, transportation, medical, and
shelter costs. (Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-2018; Ord. 2021-150, 8-31-2021)
5-5-4: UNATTENDED DOGS:
5-5-4-1: UNATTENDED DOG REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner, custodian or possessor to keep, on any
property or premises, any dog or dogs without a person also residing on the
property, who is responsible for the care and attention of the dog.
   B.   For the first violation of this section, a reasonable attempt shall be
made to locate the owner to immediately remove the dog(s). If the owner cannot
be located, or in the case of repeat violations of this section by an owner,
custodian or possessor, the dog(s) may be impounded in any available shelter
facility able to house the dog(s).
   C.   Notice of the impoundment shall be provided by personal service on the
owner, custodian or possessor of the dog(s) or by posting notice in a prominent
location on the property in which the dog(s) were seized. (Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-
2018; Ord. 2021-150, 8-31-2021)
5-5-4-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF UNATTENDED DOGS:
   A.   If impoundment of the dog(s) is the only available option to remove and
secure the unattended dog(s), or if the owner was previously cited for an
infraction or misdemeanor violation of this section, and who subsequently
places any dog or dogs on any parcel of property in violation of this section,
the dog(s) shall be impounded.
   B.   The owner is responsible for the reasonable costs of the impoundment
and the care, keeping, adoption or disposal of the impounded dog(s). Reasonable
costs shall include, but shall not be limited to, transportation, medical, and
shelter costs.
   C.   All costs shall be paid in full before the impounded dog(s) are
released.
   D.   If the costs are not paid in full and the dog(s) retrieved by the owner
within five (5) business days of notice of impoundment, or from entry of a
court order releasing the impounded dog(s) to the owner if applicable, the dog
(s) shall be declared abandoned and be made available for adoption or disposal.
(Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-2018; Ord. 2021-150, 8-31-2021)
5-5-4-3: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF UNATTENDED DOG REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any violation of this section shall be punishable as follows,
notwithstanding that the dog(s) involved may not be the same dog(s) as were
involved in the previous violation:
      1.   The first violation of this section shall constitute an infraction,
with a set fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus court costs.
      2.   The second violation of this section within two (2) years shall
constitute an infraction, with a set fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus
court costs.
      3.   The third violation of this section within two (2) years shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable fine of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) plus court costs, and the costs incurred for the impoundment and
the care, keeping, adoption or disposal of the dog(s), and the dog(s) may be
subject to impoundment and adoption or disposal. Costs shall include, but shall
not be limited to, transportation, medical, and shelter costs.
   B.   Upon a judgment of conviction for any violation of this section, the
court may also enter a civil judgment for any costs incurred for the
impoundment and the care, keeping and adoption or disposal of the dog(s). Costs
shall include, but shall not be limited to, transportation, medical, and
shelter costs. (Ord. 2018-142, 5-14-2018; Ord. 2021-150, 8-31-2021)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Purpose
6-1-3: Adoption And Availability Of Laws
6-1-4: Penalties
6-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY MOTOR
VEHICLE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 53, 11-9-1987)
6-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to adopt certain portions of the Idaho motor
vehicle laws by reference pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 49-
208(4). (Ord. 53, 11-9-1987; amd. 2011 Code)
6-1-3: ADOPTION AND AVAILABILITY OF LAWS:
   A.   Adoption Of Laws By Reference: All portions of Idaho Code title 49,
chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 27 and 28 not otherwise preempted by
the state are herein adopted by reference, and any violation thereof is a
violation of this chapter.
   B.   Availability For Public Use And Examination: The county clerk, during
normal business hours, shall make available not less than three (3) copies of
the full provisions of Idaho Code title 49, chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 15, 27 and 28 for public use and examination. (Ord. 53, 11-9-1987; amd.
2011 Code)
6-1-4: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violation of this chapter shall be the same as those set out in
Idaho Code title 49 for violation of specific code sections and shall conform
with the state designation of either a misdemeanor or an infraction, as the
case may be. (Ord. 53, 11-9-1987)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Weight And Speed Limits During Spring Breakup
6-2-1: WEIGHT AND SPEED LIMITS DURING SPRING BREAKUP:
   A.   Title And Scope: This section shall be known as the SPRING BREAKUP
ORDINANCE and determines the weight and speed limits upon roads owned or
maintained in the county during the months of spring breakup each year when the
operation of heavy vehicles could cause damage to the roads or be a hazard to
the public.
   B.   Authority: This section governing the speed and weight restrictions on
county roads during spring breakup season is adopted under the authority of
Idaho Code sections 31-805, 40-604 and 49-1005.
   C.   Load And Speed Restrictions:
      1.   From February 1 to May 1 of each calendar year, the allowable weight
upon any road owned or maintained by the county shall be a maximum gross weight
of ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
      2.   Whenever these weight limits are in effect, the maximum speed on the
affected road with a gross weight over ten thousand (10,000) pounds shall be
the posted speed or thirty five (35) miles per hour, whichever is less.
   D.   Temporary Waiver: When road and weather conditions warrant, district
road supervisors may provide a temporary waiver of the spring breakup
restriction on a particular road or section of road by posting green markers on
signs displaying a weight limit imposed by this section. A status of temporary
waivers of the spring breakup limits will be provided to the sheriff whenever
that status changes.
   E.   Morning Waiver: When road and weather conditions warrant, district road
supervisors may provide an intermittent morning wavier of the spring breakup
restrictions on a particular road or section of road. This waiver shall be
effective for twelve (12) hours from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. each day and may be provided by the district road supervisor
posting blue markers on signs displaying a weight limit imposed by this
section. A status of morning waivers of the spring breakup limits will be
provided to the sheriff whenever that status changes.
   F.   Penalty: A violation of the weight or speed restrictions imposed by
this section shall be a misdemeanor. Anyone who, not under the direction of the
duly appointed district road supervisor, places, moves, removes, or alters any
marker described in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 88,
12-11-1995)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED, WRECKED OR JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Title
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Storing, Parking Or Leaving Restricted; Nuisance; Exceptions
6-3-4: Investigation Of Premises
6-3-5: Notice Of Removal, Procedure
6-3-6: Request For Hearing
6-3-7: Removal Of Vehicle From Property; Notice
6-3-8: Disposition Of Vehicle
6-3-9: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
6-3-10: Immunity From Damages
6-3-11: Liability Of Owner Or Occupant
6-3-12: Penalty
6-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ABANDONED, WRECKED,
DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE ORDINANCE OF BENEWAH COUNTY. (Ord. 58,
4-10-1989)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
COUNTY: The county of Benewah, state of Idaho.
JUNKED VEHICLE: Any "vehicle", as defined in this section, which does not have
lawfully affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and a
current safety inspection certificate if such is required by law, and the
condition of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative,
abandoned, or discarded.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the county which is privately owned
and which is not "public property" as defined in this section.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or
facility.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street or highway excepting devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails and tracks and shall include, but not be
limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motorscooters, trucks,
tractors, go-carts, golf carts, campers and trailers. (Ord. 58, 4-10-1989)
6-3-3: STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING RESTRICTED; NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Public Property: No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the
parking, storing, or leaving of any vehicle of any kind which is in an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or partially
dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon any public property within
the county for a period of time in excess of seventy two (72) hours. The
presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or
partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof, on public property, is hereby
declared a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person owing or having
custody of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or
partially dismantled vehicle to store or permit any such vehicle or accessories
to remain on any private property within the county for a period of more than
thirty (30) days after the receipt of a notice requiring such removal, and it
shall be further unlawful for any person owning any private property within the
county to store or to permit to remain any such vehicle or accessories on his
property for more than a like period. Such storage is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any vehicle or vehicle
accessories stored within an enclosed building, or enclosed behind a privacy
fence where such vehicles or accessories are not visible from any public
property or adjacent private property, or on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise, in a storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner, or seasonal use vehicles such as
snowmobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters and nonmotorized campers, or to any
motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or designed for
operation on drag strips or raceways, or any vehicle retained by the owner for
antique collection purposes. Such business enterprises shall include auto
junkyards, auto repair and auto body shops but shall not include automobile
service stations or tire, battery and accessory sales stores. (Ord. 58, 4-10-
1989)
6-3-4: INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES:
The county sheriff or one of his duly constituted deputies and/or the building
inspector on routine inspection or upon receipt of a complaint may investigate
a suspected abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or
partially dismantled vehicle or vehicle accessories and record the make, model,
style and identification numbers and its situation. (Ord. 58, 4-10-1989)
6-3-5: NOTICE OF REMOVAL, PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice Of Removal: Whenever it comes to the attention of the county
sheriff that any nuisance as defined in section
6-3-3 of this chapter exists in the county, a notice in writing shall be served
upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance exists, or in case there is no
such occupant, then upon the owner of the property or his agent, notifying them
of the existence of the nuisance and requesting its removal in the time
specified in this chapter.
   B.   Responsibility For Removal: Upon proper notice and opportunity to be
heard, the owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle
and the owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is located,
either or all of them, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of
removal and disposition by the county, the owner, or occupant of the private
property where same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
   C.   Notice Procedure: The county sheriff shall give notice of removal to
the owner or occupant of the private property where it is located, at least
thirty (30) days before the time of compliance. It shall constitute sufficient
notice when a copy of same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the private
property on which the vehicle is located and duplicate copies are sent by
registered or certified mail to the owner or occupant of the private property
at his last known address.
   D.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall contain a request for removal
within the time specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that
upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the county or its designee
shall undertake such removal with the cost of removal to be levied against the
owner or occupant of the property. (Ord. 58, 4-10-1989)
6-3-6: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
The persons to whom the notices are directed, or their duly authorized agents,
may file a written request for hearing before the board of county commissioners
within the thirty (30) day period of compliance prescribed in subsection 6-3-3B
of this chapter for the purpose of defending the charges by the county. (Ord.
58, 4-10-1989)
6-3-7: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM PROPERTY; NOTICE:
   A.   Right Of Sheriff To Remove: If the violation described in the notice
has not been remedied within the thirty (30) day period of compliance or in the
event a notice requesting a hearing is timely filed, a hearing is had, and the
existence of the violation is affirmed by the board of county commissioners,
the county sheriff or his designee shall have the right to take possession of
the targeted vehicle and remove it from the premises. It shall be unlawful for
any person to interfere with, hinder, or refuse to allow such person to enter
upon private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Removal: Within forty eight (48) hours of the removal of such
vehicle, the sheriff shall give notice to the registered owner of the vehicle,
if known, and also to the owner or occupant of the private property from which
the vehicle was removed, that said vehicle has been impounded and stored for
violation of this chapter. This notice shall give the location of where the
vehicle is stored, and the costs incurred by the county for removal. (Ord. 58,
4-10-1989)
6-3-8: DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE:
Upon removing a vehicle under the provision of this chapter, the county shall
cause the vehicle to be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Idaho
Code section 49-1801 et seq., entitled "abandoned motor vehicles". (Ord. 58, 4-
10-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
6-3-9: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to sale or destruction
thereof on proof of ownership and payment to the county of such sum as the
county may determine and fix for the actual and reasonable cost of removal and
any preliminary sale advertisement expenses, plus ten dollars ($10.00) a day
for storage for such vehicle impounded. (Ord. 58, 4-10-1989)
6-3-10: IMMUNITY FROM DAMAGES:
The sheriff, deputy sheriff, and any police officer, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damage in any
action brought by the registered owner or his legal representative or any
person legally entitled to the possession of a vehicle removed and impounded
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
chapter. (Ord. 58, 4-10-1989)
6-3-11: LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which vehicles
declared nuisances as defined in this chapter have been removed by the county
to pay the unrecovered expenses incurred by the county in such removal, a lien
shall be placed upon the property for the unrecovered amount of such expenses.
(Ord. 58, 4-10-1989)
6-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 58, 4-10-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
ST. MARIES AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Airport Zones
7-1-4: Airport Zone Height Limitations
7-1-5: Use Restrictions
7-1-6: Nonconforming Uses
7-1-7: Permits
7-1-8: Enforcement
7-1-9: Board Of Adjustment
7-1-10: Appeals
7-1-11: Judicial Review
7-1-12: Conflicting Regulations
7-1-13: Penalty
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as ST. MARIES AIRPORT HAZARD
ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AIRPORT: The St. Maries airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet from mean sea level.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the
vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or take
off at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or take off of
aircraft.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline and extending outward and upward at a slope of twenty feet (20')
horizontally for each foot vertically, for a distance of five thousand feet
(5,000') beginning at the end of the primary surface. The width of the approach
surface expands uniformly from two hundred fifty feet (250') wide at the end of
the primary surface to one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') wide at the
distance of five thousand feet (5,000') from the end of the primary surface.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones apply to the
area under the approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical surfaces defined
herein.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of three (3) members appointed by the
Benewah County commissioners as provided in section
7-1-9 of this chapter.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward at a slope of twenty
feet (20') horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the periphery of
the horizontal surface and extending a horizontal distance of four thousand
feet (4,000').
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by
swinging arcs of five thousand foot (5,000') radii from the center of each end
of the primary surface and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to
those arcs.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity. It includes a trustee,
receiver, assignee, or similar representative of any of them.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. The primary
surface extends two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. The
width of the primary surface is two hundred fifty feet (250'). The elevation of
any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest
point on the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take off of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formations, and overhead
transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward at right angles to
the runway centerline at a slope of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot
vertically beginning at the sides of the primary surface and the sides of the
approach surfaces, and ending where it penetrates the horizontal surface.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds
maximum gross weight and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved airport layout plan,
a military service's approved military airport layout plan, or by any planning
document submitted to the FAA by competent authority. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978)
7-1-3: AIRPORT ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones for existing and future planned airport
conditions as they apply to a particular airport. These zones include all the
land lying within the primary zones, approach zones, transitional zones,
horizontal zones and conical zones. Such zones are shown on the St. Maries
airport hazard zoning map consisting of one sheet prepared by J-U-B Engineers,
Inc., and dated January 1977, which is attached to this chapter and made a part
hereof. Whenever the zoning map shows zones for future planned airport
improvements, the more stringent future planned zones govern. Their limitations
and boundaries shall be adapted for present zoning purposes. The various zones
are hereby established and defined as follows:
   A.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zones: These zones are hereby
established as the area beneath the approach surfaces. The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is two
hundred fifty feet (250') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to
a width of one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') at a horizontal
distance of five thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface, its
centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   B.   Transitional Zones: These zones are hereby established as the area
beneath the transitional surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and upward at
ninety degree (90°) angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline
extended at a slope of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically
from the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the
horizontal surface.
   C.   Horizontal Zone: This zone is hereby established as the area below the
horizontal surface. The horizontal zone perimeter is delineated by swinging
arcs of five thousand feet (5,000') radii from the center of each end of the
primary surface of each runway, and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing
lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach
and transitional zones.
   D.   Conical Zone: This zone is hereby established as the area below the
conical surface. The conical zone is the area that commences at the periphery
of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of
four thousand feet (4,000'). (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978)
7-1-4: AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Limitations Established: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or be
maintained in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the
applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such applicable
height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as
follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: Height limitation slopes upward
twenty feet (20') horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end
of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a
horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000') along the extended runway
centerline.
      2.   Transitional Zones: Height limitation slopes upward and outward
seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the sides of
and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach surfaces, and
extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport
elevation which is two thousand one hundred twenty seven feet (2,127') above
mean sea level.
      3.   Horizontal Zone: Height limitation is one hundred fifty feet (150')
above the airport elevation or a height of two thousand two hundred seventy
seven feet (2,277') above mean sea level.
      4.   Conical Zone: Height limitation slopes upward and outward twenty
feet (20') horizontally for each foot vertically beginning at the periphery of
the horizontal surface and at one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of three hundred fifty feet (350') above
the airport elevation.
      5.   Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree
or structure to a height up to thirty feet (30') above the surface of the land.
   B.   More Restrictive Limitation Applies: Where an area is covered by more
than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Ord. 16, 6-12-1978)
7-1-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to: create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, take off, or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978)
7-1-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a
nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date hereof, and is
diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the chairman of the county
commissioners to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport, the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the county. (Ord. 16, 6-
12-1978)
7-1-7: PERMITS:
   A.   Future Uses: No material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted, or otherwise established
in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for
and granted.
      1.   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than seventy five
feet (75') of vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the
horizontal and conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a
horizontal distance of four thousand two hundred feet (4,200') from each end of
the runway except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for the respective zone.
      2.   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired with sufficient particulars to determine whether the
resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If such a determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date hereof or any amendments thereto or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the chairman of the
county commissioners determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated,
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978)
   D.   Variances: Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the
county planning and zoning commission for a variance from such regulations.
Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal
application or enforcement of the regulations would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship and relief granted would not be contrary to
the public interest but will do substantial justice and be in accordance with
the spirit of this chapter. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Hazard Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and
be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner
of the structure or tree in question to permit the county, at its own expense,
to install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard. (Ord. 16, 6-
12-1978)
7-1-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the county planning and zoning commission to administer
and enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and
variances shall be made to the county planning and zoning commission upon a
form furnished by them. Applications required by this chapter to be submitted
to the county planning and zoning commission shall be promptly considered and
granted or denied by them. Application for action by the board of adjustment
shall be forthwith transmitted by the county planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 16, 6-12-1978; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1-9: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Board Established; Powers: There is hereby created a board of
adjustment to have and exercise the following powers: 1) to hear and decide
appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
county planning and zoning commission in the enforcement of this chapter; 2) to
hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter upon which such
board of adjustment under such regulations may be required to pass; and 3) to
hear and decide specific variances.
   B.   Appointment; Terms; Removal: The board of adjustment shall consist of
three (3) members appointed by the county commissioners and each shall serve
for a term of three (3) years and until his successor is duly appointed and
qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of
one year, one for a term of two (2) years, and one for a term of three (3)
years. Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon
written charges, after a public hearing.
   C.   Rules; Meetings: The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the
board of adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other
times as the board of adjustment may determine. The chairman, or in his absence
the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All hearings of the board of adjustment shall be public. The board
of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member upon each question; or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the county planning
and zoning commission, and on due cause shown.
   D.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of Law: The board of adjustment shall
make written findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon
which it acted and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing,
affirming, or modifying any order, requirement, decision, or determination
which comes before it under the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Majority Vote Of Members: The concurring vote of a majority of the
members of the board of adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the county planning and zoning
commission or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it
is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect variation in this chapter.
(Ord. 16, 6-12-1978; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any
decision of the county planning and zoning commission made in their
administration of this chapter, may appeal to the board of adjustment.
   B.   Filing Notice Of Appeal: All appeals hereunder must be taken within a
reasonable time as provided by the rules of the board of adjustment, by filing
with the county planning and zoning commission a notice of appeal specifying
the grounds thereof. The county planning and zoning commission shall forthwith
transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the county planning and zoning
commission certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal has
been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a
stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the board of
adjustment on notice to the county planning and zoning commission, and on due
cause shown.
   D.   Fix Time For Hearing; Notice: The board of adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   Board Determination: The board of adjustment may, in conformity with
the provision of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may
make such order, requirement, decision, or determination, as may be appropriate
under the circumstances. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of
adjustment, or the county board of commissioners, may appeal to the district
court in and for Benewah County. Procedure for such appeal shall be in all
respects as prescribed in Idaho Code sections 31-1510 and 31-1511. (Ord. 16, 6-
12-1978; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1-12: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978)
7-1-13: PENALTY:
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 16, 6-12-1978; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE REGULATIONS, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Use Of Public Sewers And Monthly User Fee
7-2-4: Service Connection Permits And Fees
7-2-5: Sewer System Capitalization Fees
7-2-6: Delegation Of Responsibilities
7-2-7: Enforcement; Remedies
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the LIDs to establish and collect connection fee charges which cover county
costs of service inspection, establishment of the new user accounts, and to
contribute to the operating reserve fund; to establish and collect
capitalization fees to provide a capital reserve fund for capital improvements
proportionate to sewer system capacity utilized by new sewer users; to provide
for system of charges for LID operation and maintenance expenses. (Ord. 30, 10-
24-1983)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Any term not defined in this section shall be defined as presented in the
"Glossary – Water And Sewage Control Engineering", APHA, ASCE, and WPCF, latest
edition.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD5: Biochemical oxygen demand shall mean the quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BOARDING HOUSE: Any building or portion thereof which includes separate
bedrooms for rent and common kitchen and/or bathroom facilities.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to a point of connection
with the public sewer or other place of disposal.
CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation licensed by the state of Idaho as a
public works contractor.
COUNTY: Refers to county of Benewah, Idaho, its board of commissioners, or its
authorized representatives.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INSPECTOR: The county's duly authorized representative.
INTERCEPTOR: A sewer line which primarily conveys waste from collection systems
to a treatment facility, and which normally does not have service taps.
LIDs: Local improvement districts numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 as established by
the Benewah County board of commissioners in 1981.
MULTI-UNIT DWELLING: A building containing a unit or combination of units with
individual bath and kitchen facilities. This definition includes apartments,
condominiums, townhouses, and duplexes, triplexes, etc. A seasonal multi- unit
dwelling is an individual unit of a multi-unit dwelling which is occupied on an
intermittent basis and is not utilized as a primary residence.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer which is owned and operated by Benewah County or its
representative, located in public rights of way or dedicated easements.
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS: Residential buildings shall include only the following
types of building and structures: single- family residences, duplexes,
triplexes, apartment houses, motels, hotels, trailer courts, and multi-unit
dwellings.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which the building sewer connects to the
public sewer.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWER USER: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, or
corporation, or group who has connected to the sewerage system.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE: A building designated for and used exclusively for
residence purposes by one family. This definition shall include a single
trailer not located in a trailer court.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed Storm Sewer): A sewer which carries stormwater
and surface water and drainage, but exclude sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted water such as cooling water.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME PARK: A trailer court or mobile home park is an
area or site of land upon which two (2) or more trailers are placed and
maintained for dwelling purposes, either on a permanent or semipermanent basis,
with the land held in one ownership and sites rented or leased to residents.
(Ord. 30, 10-24-1983; amd. 2011 Code)
7-2-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS AND MONTHLY USER FEE:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall be applicable to all public sewers
which are owned, operated and maintained by the district.
   B.   Use Of Public Sewers: The use of the public sewers in Benewah County
LIDs 1 through 5 shall be in accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         a.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, gas, or septic tank sludge or septage.
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, organic chemicals, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or
by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage
disposal process, constitute any hazard to humans or animals, create a public
nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment
plant, including, but not limited to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per
liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
         c.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
         d.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
      3.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes, if it appears likely in the
opinion of the district department of health and welfare, or the Panhandle
health district that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage disposal
process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or
groundwater, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the county will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage disposal process, capacity of
the sewage disposal system, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
disposal system, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are
those items listed as hazardous wastes by the environmental protection agency
(EPA) in the EPA priority pollutant list, or other substances deemed
unacceptable by the county, the Panhandle health district, or the Idaho
department of health and welfare, division of environment.
   C.   Basis For Determining Sewer User Charges For Operation, Maintenance And
Replacement Of Sewerage System:
      1.   Purpose: There is hereby established a system of periodic service
charges and fees in order to equitably impose upon expenses of maintenance,
operation, replacement and repair of the public sewerage system. The said
service charges and fees for purposes of computation shall be based upon: a)
the volume and content of the wastewater discharged into the sewerage system of
the county; and b) the actual and expected costs and expenses of maintenance,
operation, replacement, upgrading and repair of the sewerage system, such
charges and fees being determined to be the benefit derived by each building,
structure or user from the sewer system and sewage treatment facilities.
      2.   Equivalent User: One equivalent user hereinafter referred to as "EU"
shall be defined as the sewage flow from one typical single-family residence.
The sewage flow from one typical single-family residence is three hundred (300)
gallons of sewage per day, 0.37 pound of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) per
day, and 0.37 pounds of suspended solids (SS) per day.
      3.   Collection And Interceptor Charges: The monthly cost per EU shall be
calculated by dividing the total annual projected expenditures for operation,
maintenance, administration, bond retirement, capital reserve, replacement and
expansion (hereinafter referred to as TC), by the summation of the total number
of EU x 12. This calculation can be expressed by the following formula:
Cost for one EU = TC/total # of EU x 12
         a.   The TC shall be calculated at the end of each fiscal year and the
rates adjusted to reflect the projected costs of the service for the following
fiscal year.
         b.   A single-family residence shall be assessed the cost for one EU.
         c.   The charge for special users, other than single-family
residences, shall be directly proportional to the waste produced from the
special user to that from a single-family residence, except that no charge
shall be less than that for one EU. The charge for special users shall be
calculated as follows:
            (1)   For metered nonresidential users, the monthly service charge
for special users shall be based upon the monthly average water use as measured
by the water meter reading from the previous month. The said monthly service
charge shall be calculated as follows: Monthly average water use from previous
month x cost for one EU/300 x 30.
            (2)   For nonmetered nonresidential users, the EU shall be
calculated depending upon the classification of each special user according to
the following schedule:
NONMETERED NONRESIDENTIAL USERS EQUIVALENT USER (EU) SCHEDULE
Mobile home parks EU = # of occupied spaces
NONMETERED NONRESIDENTIAL USERS EQUIVALENT USER (EU) SCHEDULE
Mobile home parks               EU = # of occupied spaces
Churches                        EU = 1
Taverns                         EU = # seats x 0.07
Restaurant                      EU = # seats x 0.17
Businesses and offices          EU = # employees x 0.07
Service stations                EU = # sets of 3 hoses x 1.7
Hospitals                       EU = # beds x 0.7 and # employees x 0.17
Bowling alleys                  EU = # lanes x 0.7
Medical and dental offices      EU = # hours/week/employee x 0.01
Auto dealership                 EU = 2
Multi-unit dwelling             EU = # units x 1
Boarding houses                 EU = # occupants x 0.25
Laundromats                     EU = # washing machines x 0.56
Theaters                        EU = # seats x 0.007
Nursing homes                   EU = # beds x 0.7
Motel and hotel with kitchen    EU = # units x 0.5
Motel and hotel without kitchen EU = # units x 0.25
High schools:
   Without kitchen           EU = # students x 0.13
   With kitchen              EU = # students x 0.25
   With showers              EU = # students x 0.17
   With kitchen and showers  EU = # students x 0.29
Elementary schools:
   Without kitchen           EU = # students x 0.065
   With kitchen              EU = # students x 0.125
   With showers              EU = # students x 0.085
   With kitchen and showers  EU = # students x 0.145
Miscellaneous: Any sewer use that cannot be classified in one of the above
classes shall have its EU computed on an individual basis by the county.
Multi-unit seasonal: Fee shall be prorated based upon the water usage of
similar metered units and shall be established by the county.
 
            (3)   Any user that discharges industrial wastes or produces a
flow, biochemical oxygen demand of suspended solids loading in excess of five
percent (5%) of the average dry weather sewage flow measured at the main
interceptor shall be calculated by the county. No quantity discounts shall be
allowed and the county may assess a surcharge on waste flows with biochemical
oxygen demand or suspended solids concentrations above two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/l).
      4.   Treatment Charges: Monthly charges for wastewater treatment services
shall be as established by the city of St. Maries, Idaho.
      5.   Revisions To User Charge: Revisions to the user charges shall be
based upon actual operation, maintenance, capital reserve and replacement
expenses and/or a change in the total number of equivalent users, total daily
suspended solids, and/or total daily flow to the public sewerage system. As a
minimum, the user charge for operation, maintenance and capital reserve shall
be reviewed annually and updated to reflect actual costs plus reserve for
replacement and repair. (Ord. 30, 10-24-1983)
7-2-4: SERVICE CONNECTION PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Applicability: The requirement for connection permits and fees shall
apply throughout the boundaries of the LIDs where connection is to be made to
the county owned and operated public sewer system.
   B.   Connection Permit: A permit for connection to a county owned and
operated sewer system must be obtained from the county, prior to construction
of the physical connection. The permit will be issued by the county upon
completion of an application for connection and payment of the connection fee
and capitalization fee provided herein. Construction of the sewer connection
shall be made by a journeyman plumber licensed by the Idaho state plumbing
board.
   C.   Connection Fee:
      1.   The connection fee shall be paid to the county as compensation for
the cost of inspection of said connection, establishment of the users account,
and initial contribution to the sewer system operation and maintenance reserve
fund.
      2.   The connection fee shall be equal to the number of EU calculated in
section
7-2-3 of this chapter multiplied by the connection fee for a single-family
residence. In no case shall the connection fee be less than that for one
single-family residence (1 EU). The fee for a single-family residence shall be
$150.00 x (ENR-CCI/4860.5). ENR-CCI is the "Engineering News Record
Construction Costs Index" (Seattle), as published monthly by McGraw-Hill, Inc.
      3.   The connection fee shall be adjusted at least annually, by applying
the most current ENR-CCI to the formula provided above. As a minimum, the fee
shall be adjusted on October 1 of each year, and may be adjusted at any time
using the most current ENR-CCI.
   D.   Inspection:
      1.   The physical connection to a county owned and operated sewer system
must be inspected by a duly authorized representative of the district, prior to
backfill of the excavation. At least forty eight (48) hours' notice of the time
requested for the connection must be provided to the district. Deviations from
the county design standards must be corrected at the permittee's expense.
      2.   Connection made without county inspection shall be reexcavated at
the permittee's expense to allow inspection by the district's representative.
   E.   Ownership Of Service Connections: Service lines, service taps, and
individual pump stations shall be installed, owned and maintained by customers.
(Ord. 30, 10-24-1983)
7-2-5: SEWER SYSTEM CAPITALIZATION FEES:
   A.   Applicability: Sewer system capitalization fees shall apply to all
parcels or equivalent users which apply for sewer service but have not been
assessed any equivalent LID assessment for the proposed use.
   B.   Basis For Determining Sewer System Capitalization Fees:
      1.   The county shall collect from all new users applicable under this
section, sewer system capitalization fees, and this money shall be placed in a
special fund for utilization by the county for capital improvements and
replacement of sewer collector, interceptor, and treatment facilities. These
capitalization fees shall be in addition to other permit fees, and connection
fees, described in this chapter and all other applicable ordinances, and
represents a portion of the present value of the increment of capacity of the
sewerage system utilized by the new connection that must be provided or
replaced at a future date. The district may levy other local improvement
district assessments, sewer bond retirement fees, and user charges for sewer
system costs not included under the sewer system capitalization fee.
      2.   The sewer system capitalization fee shall be equal to the number of
EU calculated in section
7-2-4 of this chapter multiplied by the sewer system capitalization fee for a
single-family residence. In no case shall the sewer system capitalization fee
be less than that for one single-family residence (1 EU). The fee for a single-
family residence (1 EU) shall be one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
original LID assessment for one EU in the applicable LID multiplied by (ENR-
CCI/4860.5). ENR-CCI is the "Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index"
(Seattle) as published monthly by McGraw-Hill, Inc.
      3.   Reserve Fund For Sewer System Capital Improvement And Replacement:
There is hereby created a reserve fund dedicated to design and construction of
wastewater collector, interceptor and treatment facility improvements and
replacement. Funds derived from the charge of the sewer system capitalization
fees shall be placed in this dedicated reserve fund. The money so reserved may
only be utilized for design and construction of wastewater collector,
interceptor and treatment facility improvements and replacement, and the money
from said reserve fund is not to be utilized for regular operation and
maintenance of the sewer system, except that up to five percent (5%) of the
annual receipts can be utilized to administer the capitalization fee program.
      4.   The sewer system capitalization fees shall be adjusted at least
annually by applying the most current ENR-CCI to the formulas provided in
subsections B and C of this section. As a minimum, the fees shall be adjusted
on October 1 of each year, and may be adjusted at any time utilizing the most
current ENR-CCI. (Ord. 30, 10-24-1983)
7-2-6: DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES:
The county may, at its option, delegate such maintenance operation, billing,
collection or other responsibilities as it deems proper to such third parties
as it may choose, and these third parties shall be entitled to payment from the
users of the public sewers within the LIDs to the same extent as the county
would have been had it performed the services. (Ord. 30, 10-24-1983)
7-2-7: ENFORCEMENT; REMEDIES:
The county shall enforce and seek remedies to infractions of the conditions of
this chapter, as provided by the laws of the state. (Ord. 30, 10-24-1983)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Amendments To Adopted Codes
8-1-3: Agricultural Buildings
8-1-4: Septic System Approval Prior To Building Permit Issuance
8-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Code Adoption: The approved editions of the following codes, as adopted
by the state of Idaho, together with any amendments, exclusions or revisions
made by the Idaho building code board through the negotiated rulemaking
process, are adopted as the official building codes of the county, except as
provided in section
8-1-2 of this chapter:
      1.   The international building code, 2012 edition.
      2.   The international residential code, 2009 edition.
      3.   The international energy conservation code, 2009 edition.
      4.   The uniform building code for abatement of dangerous buildings, 1997
edition.
      5.   The international fire code, 2012 edition.
      6.   The international mechanical code, 2009 edition.
      7.   The international fuel and gas code, 2009 edition.
      8.   The national electrical code, 2008 edition.
      9.   The Idaho state plumbing code, 2009 edition.
   B.   Successive Versions Effective: The adopted versions of the foregoing
codes shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of such codes as they
are adopted or approved by the Idaho building code board effective January 1 of
the year following the adoption by the Idaho building code board.
   C.   Copies On File: Copies of each code as adopted in subsection A of this
section shall be and remain on file in the office of the county building
inspector and open for public inspection.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of any provisions of this section, or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense; provided,
however, that the maximum punishment of each offense shall be as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, contractor,
subcontractor, public official, or any other person who commits, participates
in, assists in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county commissioners or any
other public official(s) or private citizen(s) from taking such lawful action
as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this section. (Ord.
2013-135, 12-23-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
8-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES:
   A.   Generally: Amendments relating to the administrative duties of the
building inspector, the fee schedule, or civil or criminal penalties relating
to the enforcement of this chapter may be adopted by resolution. All other
amendments to this chapter shall be by ordinance.
   B.   Amendments To International Building Code:
      105.5 Expiration: The building office is authorized to reinstate as
valid, a permit which has expired. The reinstatement shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. In any case, accumulated extensions
of time for any permit shall not be granted for more than a total time equal to
the code adoption cycle of the codes in effect at the time of permit issuance;
or an expired permit shall not be reinstated if the adopted codes at the time
of the original permit are no longer in effect. Upon the granting of an
extension of time for a valid permit, or granting a reinstatement of an expired
permit, the applicant shall be assessed a fee equal to the amount of the
reinspection fee as published in the most recent Benewah County fee resolution.
      109.3 Building Permit Valuations: Valuation for permit fee calculations
shall be set by the building official in accordance with the current fee
resolution adopted by Benewah County.
      111.1 Use And Occupancy: No building or structure shall be used or
occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a building
or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has
issued a certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion therefor as
provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy or certificate of
completion shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the
provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction.
      Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy or certificate of
completion, the applicant shall provide final approval from all agencies with
jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the fire district, highway
district, Idaho department of transportation, Panhandle health district, sewer
districts, the Idaho state electrical inspector, the Idaho state plumbing
inspector, the Idaho state building inspector, the Idaho department of health
and welfare, the Idaho department of lands, and the U.S. army corp of
engineers.
      1604.2 Minimum Design Criteria:
a. Wind speed                             90 mph 3 second gust
                                         75 mph fastest mile
b. Air freezing index                     1,500
c. Seismic design category                C
d. Weathering                             Severe
e. Minimum frost depth                    24 inches
f. Soil bearing pressure, assumed minimum 1,500 pfs
g. Decay                                  Slight
h. Ice shield underlayment required       Yes
 
   C.   Amendments To International Residential Code:
      R105.5 Expiration: The building official is authorized to reinstate as
valid, a permit which has expired. The reinstatement shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. In any case, accumulated extensions
of time for any permit shall not be granted for more than a total time equal to
the code adoption cycle of the codes in effect at the time of permit issuance;
or an expired permit shall not be reinstated if the adopted codes at the time
of the original permit issuance are no longer in effect. Upon the granting of
an extension of time for a valid permit, or granting a reinstatement of an
expired permit, the applicant shall be assessed a fee equal to the amount of
the reinspection fee as published in the most recent Benewah County fee
resolution.
      R108.3 Building Permit Valuations: Valuations for permit fee calculations
shall be set by the building official in accordance with the current fee
resolution adopted by Benewah County.
      R110.1 Use And Occupancy: No building or structure shall be used or
occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of building or
structure or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has
issued a certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion therefor as
provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy or certificate of
completion shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the
provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction.
      Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy or certificate of
completion, the applicant shall provide final approval from all agencies with
jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, fire district, highway district,
Idaho department of transportation, Panhandle health district, sewer districts,
the Idaho state electrical inspector, the Idaho state plumbing inspector, the
Idaho state building inspector, the Idaho department of health and welfare, the
Idaho department of lands, and the U.S. corps of engineers.
      Table R301.2(1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria:
Wind speed (mph)                 75 mph fastest mile
                                 90 mph 3 second gust
Air freezing index               1,500
Seismic design category          C
Weathering                       Severe
Frost line depth                 24 inches
Termite                          Slight
Decay                            Slight
Ice shield underlayment required Yes
Roof snow load1
 
Notes:
1.    The ground snow loads used in determining the design snow loads shall be
determined by using the factors and methodology contained in the publication
"Ground Roof And Snow Loads For Idaho" and the accompanying map "Normalized
Ground Snow Loads For Idaho" by the University of Idaho, Moscow, ID, 1986.
Methodology for determining design snow loads shall be as required in
international building code (IBC) section 1608.
      Table N1102.1 Minimum Requirements: In no cases shall there be less than
the following components in any conditioned, habitable space:
 
a. Ceiling (flat)      R-38
b. Ceiling (vaulted)   R-38
c. Exterior walls      R-20
d. Floors              R-30
e. Cantilevered floors R-30
f. Slab perimeter (2') R-10
g. Windows             0.35 u-factor
 
(Ord. 2013-135, 12-23-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
8-1-3: AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS:
Idaho state building code regulations adopted.
   A.   Exemptions: Agricultural buildings as defined in this section are
exempt from the building codes adopted herein, but shall remain subject to
placement requirements established by zoning regulations.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure that is designed and constructed for one
or more of the following purposes:
      1.   Livestock shelters or buildings, including shade structures and
milling barns;
      2.   Poultry buildings or shelters;
      3.   Barns;
      4.   Storage of equipment and machinery used exclusively in agriculture;
      5.   Horticultural structures, including detached production greenhouses
and crop protection shelters;
      6.   Sheds;
      7.   Grain silos; or
      8.   Stables.
   EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY USED EXCLUSIVELY IN AGRICULTURE: Farm implements and
other equipment and machinery that are used exclusively on land actively
devoted to agriculture, and are not used on public highways except as necessary
for access to land actively devoted to agriculture.
   LAND ACTIVELY DEVOTED TO AGRICULTURE: Real property meeting the eligibility
criteria for appraisal, assessment, and taxation as agricultural property, as
set forth in Idaho Code section 63-604.
The above definitions shall supersede any definitions of these terms that are
contained in the international building code.
   C.   Exemption From Building Code Requirements: A building that meets the
definition of "agricultural building" contained in subsection B of this section
shall be exempt from the requirements of the building codes enumerated in Idaho
Code title 39, chapter 41, and the rules promulgated by the Idaho building code
board, to the extent such exemption is provided in Idaho Code section 39-4116;
provided, that both of the following criteria are met:
      1.   The building is used solely for one or more of the purposes listed
in the definition of "agricultural building" contained in subsection B of this
section; and
      2.   The property on which the building is sited has been determined by
the Benewah County assessor to be land actively devoted to agriculture.
   D.   Requirements Applicable To Agricultural Buildings: Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply to
agricultural buildings:
      1.   An agricultural building shall not be:
         a.   Used as a place of human habitation; or
         b.   Used as a place of employment where agricultural products are
processed, treated, or packaged; or
         c.   Open to use by the public.
      2.   All agricultural buildings shall conform to the minimum placement
standards established pursuant to the Benewah County zoning ordinance.
      3.   The owner of an agricultural building shall obtain a site permit for
the building from the county building department. (Ord. 2007-117, 12-17-2007,
modified 1-28-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2007)
8-1-4: SEPTIC SYSTEM APPROVAL PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.   Permit Required: No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure designed for human habitation or
requiring sewage disposal in the county unless a septic permit has first been
approved by the regional health district official.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section is declared to be a misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2013-135, 12-23-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
CHAPTER 2
ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title
8-2-2: Authority
8-2-3: Purpose
8-2-4: Application Of Provisions
8-2-5: Definitions
8-2-6: Administrator
8-2-7: Road Naming Standards
8-2-8: Address Numbering System
8-2-9: Physical Address Numbers
8-2-10: Appeals
8-2-11: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY, IDAHO, UNIFORM
ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998)
8-2-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of article XII, section 2 of
the Idaho constitution and by Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13 and title 67,
chapter 65, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998)
8-2-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, general
welfare, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of the county and the
inhabitants thereof, and:
   A.   To provide for the coordination of a street and/or road naming system;
and
   B.   To minimize future road naming and addressing conflicts; and
   C.   To expedite property identification by fire and other emergency
services; and
   D.   To provide a database for county records; and
   E.   To comply with U.S. postal addressing standards; and
   F.   To further the proper administration and enforcement of this chapter by
defining the powers and duties of the approval authorities. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-
1998)
8-2-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall apply to all lands within the unincorporated areas of the
county. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998)
8-2-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
naming and numbering streets and roads who is appointed by the board of county
commissioners to administer this chapter.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
OFFICIAL ROAD NAME LIST: The list containing the official road names within the
unincorporated areas of Benewah County composed of all of the road names
approved by the administrator and filed with and maintained by the
administrator.
OFFICIAL ROAD NAME MAP: The map or maps showing all the roads within the county
with the official name thereon approved by the administrator filed with and
maintained by the administrator.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
PLAT: A subdivision plat.
ROAD: A right of way providing vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent
properties and includes the terms street, drive, court, circle, private street,
road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or any other such terms. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-
1998)
8-2-6: ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The board shall appoint an administrator to carry out the
provisions as herein specified.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The administrator shall compile and maintain an official road name
list on an official road name map, and the list shall be filed in the county
planning and zoning office.
      2.   The administrator shall use the existing road names in the county as
a guide in determining road names.
      3.   The administrator shall enforce size and signing standards for all
addressing.
      4.   After the initial addressing work is completed, all address numbers
shall be assigned by the administrator within the unincorporated areas
designated for county numbering system; no other person or organization, public
or private, shall assign any address to any residence, business or industry or
use.
   C.   Name, Address And Telephone Number Of Administrator: The name, business
address, and business telephone number of the administrator shall be included
in appendix A attached to ordinance 82-A, and updated periodically by the board
when a new administrator is appointed. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998)
8-2-7: ROAD NAMING STANDARDS:
Naming of roads in the county shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   Duplication By Sound Or Spelling Prohibited: In order to provide for
the public health, safety, general welfare, peace, good order, comfort and
convenience of the county and its inhabitants, as described in section
8-2-3 of this chapter, there shall be no duplication of road names by sound or
spelling within the unincorporated areas of the county.
   B.   Duplicate Road Names; Procedure For Name Change:
      1.   In cases where duplication of road names exist, the administrator
shall determine whether it is necessary to change the existing name of one or
both roads. In such cases, the administrator shall propose a new name for one
or both of the roads, or propose adding a suffix or prefix to one of the road
names in order to differentiate between them. In such instances, the
administrator shall notify, in writing, all owners of property adjoining the
road (property owners) of the proposed road name, and the necessity for the
change. Tax assessment records for the county shall be used to determine the
individuals or other entities entitled to such notice. All state, federal,
county or municipal entities adjoining the road shall be included in the
property owners to receive such notice. All such property owners shall have
thirty (30) days to respond, in writing, to the administrator concerning the
proposed name change. The property owners may either accept the road name
proposed by the administrator, or suggest a road name of their own. If more
than fifty percent (50%) of the property owners specify a new name for the
road, it shall be adopted by the administrator, and submitted to the board for
approval. Proposed names not in conformance with current road naming standards
employed by the administrator, or which contain inappropriate language, shall
not be considered.
      2.   If the administrator determines, based upon the written comments
received from the property owners, that there is no consensus for the name of
the road, he or she shall conduct a public meeting, no sooner than thirty (30)
days from the date of giving notice to the property owners, in order to choose
a new road name. Notice of the public meeting shall be placed in a newspaper of
general circulation within the county, stating the time and place of the
meeting. After conducting the public meeting, if no clear consensus for the
name is chosen, the administrator shall adopt a new name for the road, and
shall submit it to the board for approval.
      3.   The board shall have the authority to either approve or reject the
road name submitted to it by the administrator. If the board approves the road
name, the administrator shall notify, in writing, the property owners and all
appropriate government agencies of the new road name, and shall place notice of
the road name change in a newspaper of general circulation within the county.
   C.   Unnamed Roads And Road Name Changes:
      1.   In the case of new roads, or roads currently unnamed in conformance
with this chapter, any owner or owners of property adjoining said road
(property owners) may petition the administrator to request a name for the
road. All such petitions shall be made to the administrator at his or her
current business address, as identified in this chapter. The administrator
shall have the authority to determine whether it is necessary to name the new
road, or change the name of the road. If such a petition is approved by the
administrator, he or she shall contact, in writing, all owners of property
adjoining the road to notify them of the petition. Property owners shall be
determined as prescribed in subsection B of this section. If the proposed road
name meets the standards for road names identified in subsection B of this
section, the administrator shall adopt the road name, and submit it to the
board for approval, and if approved by the board as prescribed in subsection B
of this section, the administrator shall notify the property owners and all
appropriate government agencies of the new road name, and place notice of the
road name in a newspaper of general circulation within the county, all as
prescribed in subsection B of this section.
      2.   In the alternative, if the administrator becomes aware of a road
that is unnamed in conformance with this chapter, he or she may propose a name
for the road, and shall notify, in writing, all owners of property adjoining
the road of the proposed road name, and the necessity for naming the road. The
procedure for adopting the new road name by the administrator, and for
submitting it to the board for approval, shall be made in conformance with
subsection B of this section.
      3.   In cases where the owners of property adjoining a road desire to
change its name, they may petition the administrator in the same manner as
prescribed in subsection C1 of this section. Road names shall not be changed
more frequently than once every ten (10) years.
   D.   Continuation Of Existing Road: Where the proposed road is on the
alignment and continuation of the existing road or where the road is on the
same alignment but not linked to an existing road, the name of the existing
road shall be applied; provided, however, there are not natural barriers such
as lakes, rivers, interstate highways, etc., in which case the name may be
changed.
   E.   Change In Direction; New Name: If a road makes a very obvious change in
direction, a new road name may be assigned.
   F.   Subdivisions: Road names for proposed subdivisions shall be shown on
the preliminary plat and approved by the administrator prior to the filing of
the final plats in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      1.   No plats shall be approved until there is compliance with all
provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Subdividers shall erect road name signs at their own expense, in
accordance with county standards.
   G.   Road Name Signs, Location: All road name signs shall be located in
accordance with county standards.
   H.   Approval Of Names; Responsibility Of Developer: All new roads in
subdivisions will be properly designated with a name. Said sign(s) shall be
purchased and erected at the expense of the developer before being accepted and
shall be subject to the prior approval by the administrator.
   I.   Other Road Signs, Maintenance: All other road signs will be erected and
maintained by the county or by applicable highway districts. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-
1998)
8-2-8: ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM:
All road address numbers shall conform to the mile post system shown on the
official number map kept on file by the administrator.
   A.   Placement Of Road Addresses: The owner and/or occupant of every
dwelling, tenement or business shall place or install, or allow to be placed or
installed, road addresses in a position visible from the road either on the
building, post or stake along the side of driveway but outside of the state or
county right of way; and provided, however, that each owner or occupant can
afford to place or install their road address. If an owner or occupant is
unable to afford to place or install such road address and can show proof of
indigency through the filing of an affidavit, and such affidavit is approved by
the board of county commissioners, then such expense for the placement or
installation of road addresses can be waived and may be paid by the county.
   B.   Time Limit For Posting: Addresses shall be posted within sixty (60)
days of receipt of notification by the owner/occupant of the address assigned
for each property.
   C.   General Requirements: The general requirements for the numbering system
are as follows:
      1.   Only one number shall be assigned to each business use or dwelling
unit to avoid confusion or duplication; and
      2.   All address numbers shall be assigned for the road upon which the
primary access to the structure originates. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998)
8-2-9: PHYSICAL ADDRESS NUMBERS:
Physical address numbers shall be no less than four inches (4") in height, or
three inches (3") in height if self- adhesive, reflective numbers are employed,
with a stroke of one-half inch (1/2"), and shall contrast with background color
pursuant to the international fire code. If a structure is more than thirty
feet (30') from the road, or is not otherwise clearly visible from the road,
its address shall be posted at the intersection of its access road and public
or private road, no less than four feet (4') and no more than six feet (6')
above the ground on a substantial, maintained support structure. View of the
address from the road must be unobstructed and maintained. The characters shall
include the address number. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998; amd. 2011 Code)
8-2-10: APPEALS:
   A.   The board shall hear and decide appeals from decisions of the
administrator made pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Any and all such appeals shall be made to the board, in writing, in
care of the clerk of the county commissioners, 701 College Avenue, St. Maries,
ID 83861.
   C.   In hearing such appeals, the board shall consider all documents, and
other matters of record upon which the administrator's decision has been made,
and shall further consider the purpose for which this chapter has been enacted.
The board shall either affirm or reverse the administrator's decision, or
remand to the administrator for further action.
   D.   Any and all such appeals shall be conducted at a regularly scheduled
meeting of the board, no later than sixty (60) days from the filing of the
notice of appeal, unless a later time is agreed upon by the appellant, the
administrator and the board. Any and all such decisions of the board shall be
made within thirty (30) days from the date of said hearing.
   E.   The board shall maintain the records of all appeal actions taken.
   F.   No appeal may be taken by any party if notice is not given to the
board, in writing, within thirty (30) days of the affected decision by the
administrator.
   G.   Any party aggrieved by the decision of the board may appeal such
decision to the district court, as provided by Idaho law. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-
1998)
8-2-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for a person to:
      1.   Erect or install a road name sign not in accordance with the
official road name map for roads accepted into the county road system;
      2.   To remove, alter, change or deface a road name sign erected or
installed as provided herein;
      3.   To place or post addresses not approved or assigned in accordance
with this chapter. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 82-A, 8-10-1998; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: License Requirements; Application; Fees
8-3-3: Inspection Of Mobile Home Parks
8-3-4: Notices, Hearings And Orders
8-3-5: Performance Regulations
8-3-6: Water, Sewer And Electrical Services
8-3-7: Service Buildings And Other Community Facilities
8-3-8: Refuse Handling
8-3-9: Fire Protection
8-3-10: Management And Occupant Responsibilities
8-3-11: Financial Guarantee Arrangements
8-3-12: Conflicting Provisions
8-3-13: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY: Board of county commissioners.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official who is appointed by the board of county
commissioners to administer this chapter.
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath or
shower.
DRIVEWAY: A vehicular access from a public or private road to a point within an
individual lot which is less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which has a toilet and a bath or shower.
LICENSE: A written license issued by the administrator permitting the mobile
home park to operate under this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder.
MOBILE HOME: A. A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in accordance
with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards, and is
transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight
(8) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or
when erected on site is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities
(commonly referred to as a "manufactured home"); or
   B.   A factory assembled structure or structures generally constructed prior
to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and made
so to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear and
designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation (commonly referred to as a "mobile home").
MOBILE HOME LOT: A plot of ground within a mobile home park, designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land under unified
ownership which has been developed for the purpose of providing two (2) or more
mobile home spaces for rent or lease to the general public.
MOBILE HOME STAND: That part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of a mobile home.
NONRESIDENTIAL PURPOSE: The use of a portion of the mobile home park or
facilities therein for purposes other than residential.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company or association.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men and
women with laundry facilities and such other facilities as may be required by
this chapter. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-2013)
8-3-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; APPLICATION; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Issuance; Notice Of Sale:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or operate any
mobile home park within the limits of the county, excluding incorporated
municipalities, unless he holds a valid license issued annually by the
administrator in the name of such person for the specific mobile home park.
      2.   All applications for licenses shall be made to the administrator,
who shall issue a license upon compliance by the applicant with the provisions
of this chapter and of any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and of any
other applicable legal requirements.
      3.   Every person holding such a license shall give notice in writing to
the administrator within ten (10) days after having sold, transferred, given
away, or otherwise disposed of, interest in or control of any mobile home park.
Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park.
   B.   Application For License; Required Information: Application for licenses
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and accompanied by an affidavit
of the applicant, as to the truth of the application, and shall contain the
following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the mobile home park.
      3.   Site development plan.
         a.   A complete overall site development plan of the mobile home park,
showing compliance with all the applicable provisions of this chapter and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
         b.   A complete overall site development plan, for the purpose of
obtaining a license to be issued by the administrator shall show location of
all mobile home pads, buildings and uses, areas devoted to open space and
buffering, ingress and egress points, and internal pedestrian and vehicular
circulation. Such plans shall include at least the following:
            (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
            (2)   The number, location and size of all mobile home spaces;
            (3)   Location, width and typical cross sections of internal
circulation streets;
            (4)   The location of water and sewer lines;
            (5)   The location and size of all parking and bulk storage areas;
            (6)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
            (7)   The location and size of open space areas;
            (8)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other
improvements constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park;
            (9)   Existing and proposed topography and contour intervals of no
more than five feet (5').
      4.   Storm drainage study with plan showing existing vegetation, slopes
and drainage conditions, as well as proposed alterations and drainage control
devices.
      5.   General landscape plan showing location of buffer strips, open
spaces, existing trees and planting materials to be preserved, proposed
interior major street plantings, and other landscape features.
      6.   Such further information as may be requested by the administrator to
enable him to determine if the proposed mobile home park will comply with the
legal requirements.
   C.   License Fees: Each person, firm or corporation, before constructing a
mobile home park, shall pay to the administrator a license fee for a mobile
home park of ten dollars ($10.00) for each of the first ten (10) spaces, five
dollars ($5.00) for each of the next twenty (20) spaces, two dollars fifty
cents ($2.50) for each of the next twenty (20) spaces and one dollar ($1.00)
for each space thereafter in excess of fifty (50) or such other amount listed
on the schedule of fees established by the board of county commissioners and
amended from time to time.
   D.   License Renewal:
      1.   The annual renewal fee for the license shall be ten dollars
($10.00), or such other amount listed on the schedule of fees established by
the board of county commissioners and amended from time to time, and shall be
paid to the administrator.
      2.   Application for the annual license shall be in writing, signed by
the applicant; and include, at a minimum, the location and legal description of
the mobile home park, showing all stands, structures, roads and service
facilities.
      3.   Renewal applications shall be accompanied by information of any
change since the previous or original fee was paid.
   E.   Fees Transmitted To Clerk: License fees collected by the administrator
shall, along with an account of the person from whom collected and a
description of the premises, be transmitted to the county clerk on a monthly
basis.
   F.   Existing Parks, Fee: The owner or operator of a mobile home park
existing at the effective date hereof shall file with the county plot plans of
the park in accordance with this section. Existing mobile home park owners
shall pay a ten dollar ($10.00) license fee or such other amount listed on the
schedule of fees established by the board of county commissioners and amended
from time to time.
   G.   License Denial; Hearing: Any person whose application for a license
under this chapter has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the administrative authority under the procedure provided
by section
8-3-4 of this chapter.
   H.   Noncompliance; Remedial Action; License Suspension: Whenever, upon
inspection of any mobile home park, the administrator finds that conditions or
practices exist which are in violation of any provision of this chapter, or of
any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the administrator shall give notice
in writing in accordance with section
8-3-4 of this chapter to the person to whom the license was issued that unless
such conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice by the administrator, the license will be suspended. At
the end of such period, the administrator shall reinspect such mobile home park
and, if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, he shall suspend
the license and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom
the license is issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall
cease operation of such mobile home park except as provided in section
8-3-4 of this chapter.
   I.   Request For Hearing: Any person whose license has been suspended, or
who has received notice from the administrator that his license will be
suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the mobile home park are
corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
administrative authority under the procedure provided by section
8-3-4 of this chapter. Provided, that when no petition for such hearing shall
have been filed within ten (10) days following the day on which notice of
suspension was served, such license shall be deemed to have been automatically
revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day period. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-
2013)
8-3-3: INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
The administrator is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to
determine the condition of mobile home parks located within the county in order
that he may perform his duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants
of mobile home parks and of the general public. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-2013)
8-3-4: NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the administrator determines that there
are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he
shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the license
was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      3.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act, if required;
      4.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly
served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
mail to his last known address or when he has been served with such notice by
any other method authorized or required by the laws of the state;
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or of any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the administrative authority; provided, that such person
shall file in the office of the administrative authority a written petition
requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds
therefor within ten (10) days after the day the notice was served. The filing
of the request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and of the
suspension, except in the case of an order issued under this section. Upon
receipt of such petition, the administrative authority shall set a time and
place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof.
      2.   At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be
heard, and to show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing
shall be commenced not later than twenty (20) days after the day on which the
petition was filed; provided, that upon application of the petitioner, the
administrative authority may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable
time beyond such twenty (20) day period when, in his judgment, the petitioner
has submitted good and sufficient reasons for such postponement.
   C.   Sustaining, Modifying Or Withdrawing Notice: After such hearing, the
administrative authority shall make findings as to comply with the provisions
of this chapter and regulations issued thereunder and shall issue an order in
writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the notice which shall be served
as provided in this section. Upon a failure to comply with any order sustaining
or modifying a notice, the license of the mobile home park affected by the
order shall be revoked.
   D.   Proceedings A Public Record: The proceedings at such a hearing,
including the findings and decision of the administrative authority, and
together with a copy of every notice and order related thereto, shall be
entered as a matter of public record in the office of the administrative
authority, but the transcript of the proceedings need not be transcribed unless
judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by this section. Any
person aggrieved by the decision of the administrative authority may seek
relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the
laws of the state.
   E.   Public Health Emergency: Whenever the administrator finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
he may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of
such an emergency and require that such action be taken as he may deem
necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of the license.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition, within two (2) working days.
The provision of this section shall be applicable to such hearing and the order
issued thereafter. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-2013)
8-3-5: PERFORMANCE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Soil And Ground Cover Requirements: Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every mobile home park shall be paved, or covered with stone
screenings, or other solid material or protected with a vegetative growth that
is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   B.   Storm Drainage: Sites shall be constructed in compliance with the
following storm drainage provisions:
      1.   Storm drainage control facilities shall be provided on site.
      2.   Storm drainage from the development shall not enter creeks or
drainageways in such a manner as would cause peak volumes and flows to differ
from those that would occur if the developed land were left in its natural and
present condition. If necessary, storm drainage from the development shall be
channeled into a holding basin prior to entry into creeks or drainageways.
      3.   Precaution shall be exercised during construction to ensure adequate
safeguards against erosion and water pollution.
   C.   Park Areas For Nonresident Uses:
      1.   No part of the mobile home park shall be used for nonresidential
purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct servicing and well
being of park residents and for the management and maintenance of the park.
      2.   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting the
sale of a mobile home located on a mobile home stand and connected to the
pertinent utilities.
   D.   Required Separation: Every mobile home space shall abut a driveway or
other clear area with unobstructed access to a public street. Such spaces shall
be defined. Mobile homes shall be parked so the minimum distance between units
is fifteen feet (15') with the minimum distance from the park road not less
than twenty feet (20'), and so that no mobile home will be less than ten feet
(10') from the exterior boundary of the mobile home park.
   E.   Required Setbacks, Buffer Strips And Screenings:
      1.   All mobile home stands shall be located at least twenty feet (20')
from any park property boundary line abutting upon a highway and at least ten
feet (10') between an individual mobile home and an adjoining park street or
common parking area or other common areas.
      2.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet (10') between an
individual mobile home and adjoining park street, or common parking area or
other common area.
      3.   All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial
land uses shall be provided with screening such as fences or natural growth
along the property boundary line separating the park and such adjacent
nonresidential uses.
   F.   Mobile Home Park Street System:
      1.   General Requirements: All mobile home parks shall be provided with
safe and convenient private roads for vehicular access from abutting public
streets or roads to each mobile home lot. Alignment and gradient shall be
properly adapted to topography.
      2.   Access: Access to mobile home parks shall be designed to minimize
congestion and hazards at the entrance or exit and allow free movement of
traffic on adjacent streets. The entrance road connecting the park streets with
a public street or road shall have a minimum road pavement width of thirty four
feet (34') where parking is permitted on both sides, or a minimum road pavement
width of twenty seven feet (27') where parking is limited to one side. Where
the primary entrance road is more than one hundred feet (100') long and does
not provide access to abutting mobile home lots within such distance, the
minimum road pavement width may be twenty four feet (24'), provided parking is
prohibited on both sides. Dead end streets shall be limited to a length of six
hundred sixty feet (660') and the cul-de-sac shall have a radius of forty five
feet (45'), unless, because of some peculiar conditions, a longer block shall
be approved by the administrative authority. Where one-way streets are
provided, minimum road width may be twenty feet (20').
      3.   Internal Streets: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic.
      4.   Lighting: Adequate lighting shall be provided to illuminate streets,
driveways and walkways for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles.
      5.   Street Construction And Design Standards:
         a.   Pavement: All streets shall be provided with smooth, hard and
dense surface (gravel, asphaltic concrete or concrete) which shall be durable
and well drained under normal use and weather conditions. Pavement edges shall
be protected to prevent raveling of the wearing surface and shifting of the
pavement base. Street surfaces shall be maintained free of holes and other
hazards.
         b.   Grades: Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage, but shall be not more than eight percent (8%). Short
runs with a maximum grade of nine percent (9%) may be permitted provided
traffic safety is assured by appropriate paving, adequate leveling areas and
avoidance of lateral curves.
         c.   Intersections: Within one hundred feet (100') of an intersection,
streets shall be at approximately right angles. A distance of at least one
hundred fifty feet (150') shall be maintained between centerlines of offset
intersecting streets. Intersections of more than two (2) streets at one point
shall be avoided.
   G.   Required Off Street Parking Areas:
      1.   Off street parking areas shall be provided in all mobile home parks
for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall be furnished at the
rate of at least two (2) car spaces for each mobile home lot.
      2.   Required car parking spaces shall be so located as to provide
convenient access to the mobile home, but shall not exceed a distance of two
hundred feet (200') from the mobile home that it is intended to serve.
   H.   Walks:
      1.   General Requirements: All parks shall be provided safe, convenient,
all season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use, durable and
convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the park streets and
all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden changes in
alignment and gradient shall be avoided.
      2.   Common Walk System: A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained on the main access streets. Such common walks shall have a minimum
width of three and one-half feet (31/2').
      3.   Individual Walks: All mobile home stands shall be connected to
common walks, to surfaced streets or to surfaced driveways or parking spaces
connecting to a surfaced street. Such individual walks shall have a minimum
width of two feet (2').
   I.   Major Improvements: Mobile home parks in existence on the effective
date hereof which do not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter may
continue to operate as a nonconforming construction or until major improvements
are undertaken. "Major improvements" shall be defined as an improvement, the
value of which equals twenty five percent (25%) or more, of the value of the
court, as it exists as of the effective date hereof. Gradual improvements are
permitted, but must be designed to achieve a higher degree of conformity to the
code. Prior to such improvements being commenced, application for a building
permit with the necessary compliance shall be made. Where it is found that
compliance would result in undue hardship, an exemption may be granted by the
enforcing agency without impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-2013)
8-3-6: WATER, SEWER AND ELECTRICAL SERVICES:
   A.   Water Supply: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water
shall be provided in each mobile home park. Where a public supply of water of
satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available, connection shall be
made thereto and its supply used exclusively. Where a satisfactory public water
supply is not available, a private water supply system may be developed and
used as approved by the Panhandle health district.
   B.   Sewage Disposal: An adequate and safe sewage system shall be provided
in all mobile home parks. When connection to a sanitary sewer system is not
feasible, alternate devices or methods may be used if they have received
approval of the Idaho state department of health and welfare and the Panhandle
health district.
   C.   Electrical Distribution System: Every park shall contain an electrical
wiring system which complies with the electrical code of the state. Existing
mobile home parks will bring the electrical hookups of newly placed mobile
homes into compliance with the electrical code of the state. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-
25-2013)
8-3-7: SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMUNITY FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: The requirements of this section shall apply to
service buildings, recreation buildings and other community service facilities
such as:
      1.   Management offices, repair shops and storage areas;
      2.   Sanitary facilities;
      3.   Laundry facilities;
      4.   Indoor recreation areas;
      5.   Commercial uses supplying essential goods or services for the
exclusive use of park occupants.
   B.   Required Community Sanitary Facilities: Every park that accommodates
dependent mobile homes shall be provided with the following emergency sanitary
facilities: For each ten (10) dependent mobile home lots, or fractional part
thereof, there shall be one flush toilet and a lavatory for each sex. The
building containing such emergency sanitary facilities shall be accessible to
all mobile homes.
   C.   Structural Requirements For Building: All portions of the structure
shall comply with the current county adopted edition of the international
building code.
   D.   Barbecue Pits, Fireplaces, Stoves And Incinerators: Cooking shelters,
barbecue pits, fireplaces, and wood burning stoves shall be so located,
constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and smell nuisance
both on the property on which used and on neighboring property. No open fire
shall be permitted except for preparation of food in facilities provided. No
open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material
burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-
2013)
8-3-8: REFUSE HANDLING:
   A.   Collection And Disposal: The storage, collection and disposal of refuse
in mobile home parks shall be conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   B.   Refuse Containers: All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight,
rodentproof containers, which shall be located not more than one hundred fifty
feet (150') from any mobile home lot. Containers shall be provided in
sufficient number and capacity to properly store all refuse.
   C.   Collection Stands: Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all
refuse containers. Such container stands shall be designed as to prevent
containers from being tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration
and to facilitate cleaning around them. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-2013)
8-3-9: FIRE PROTECTION:
The mobile home area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
current county adopted edition of the international fire code. (Ord. 2013-133,
3-25-2013)
8-3-10: MANAGEMENT AND OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Park Management:
      1.   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this chapter and regulations issued
hereunder and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this chapter and inform them of the park management and park
occupant duties and responsibilities under this chapter and regulations issued
hereunder.
      3.   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile
home on its mobile home stand and installing all utility connections.
   B.   Park Occupants: The park occupant shall comply with all applicable
requirements of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder, and shall
maintain his mobile home lot, its facilities and equipment in good repair and
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   C.   Restrictions On Occupancy: An independent mobile home shall not be
occupied for dwelling purpose unless it is properly placed on a mobile home
stand and connected to water, sewerage, and electrical utilities. The area of
the mobile home stand shall be improved to provide adequate support for the
placement and tie down of the mobile home, thereby securing the superstructure
against uplift, sliding, rotation, and overturning. The mobile home stand shall
not heave, shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile home due to
frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces acting on the
structure. The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie downs
such as cast in place concrete "dead men" eyelet imbedded in concrete
foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors, or other devices
securing the stability of the mobile home. Anchors and tie downs shall be
placed at least at each corner of the mobile home stand and each shall be able
to sustain a minimum tensile strength of two thousand eight hundred (2,800)
pounds. Mobile homes must obtain setting permits as required by title 44
chapter 2202, Idaho statutes. Building permits are required for ramadas, decks,
porches, and accessory buildings. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-2013)
8-3-11: FINANCIAL GUARANTEE ARRANGEMENTS:
   A.   Guarantee Of Performance: In lieu of the actual installation of
required improvements and issuance of a license, the administrative authority
may provide for a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of
the arrangements set out in subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the county covering construction
of the improvements.
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be an amount equal to the total estimated
cost for completing construction of the specific public improvement, including
contingencies, as estimated by the administrative authority.
      3.   Term Rates: The term rates in which the bond is enforced shall be
for a period to be specified by the administrative authority for the specific
improvements.
      4.   Bonding Or Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho acceptable to the
administrative authority.
      5.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the administrative authority.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the administrative authority, shall accrue to the county. These
deposits shall be made with the county treasurer, or deposited with a
reasonable escrow agent or trust company, subject to the approval of the
administrative authority.
      2.   Dollar Value: Dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be equal to the
total estimated cost of the construction of the specific improvements including
contingencies, as estimated by a qualified engineering firm.
      3.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be for a period to
be specified by the administrative authority.
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the administrative authority and the licensee may
provide for progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the
certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the
extent of the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in
accordance with the previously entered into agreement. (Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-
2013)
8-3-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any other ordinance or code of the county existing on the
effective date hereof, the provision which, in the judgment of the
administrator, establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection
of the health and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case where a
provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any
other ordinance or code of the county existing on the effective date hereof
which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the
health and safety of the people, the provision of this chapter shall be deemed
to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be
repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-133, 3-25-2013)
8-3-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. Every person is guilty of a
misdemeanor who wilfully violates any provision of this chapter or fails or
neglects to comply with any requirements of this chapter. Such person is guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day during any part of which any such
violation or noncompliance occurs and is punishable by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 2013-133,
3-25-2013)
CHAPTER 4
SITE DISTURBANCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Title
8-4-2: Authority
8-4-3: Purpose
8-4-4: Definitions
8-4-5: Administration
8-4-6: Applicability; Permit Required
8-4-7: Application And Information Requirements
8-4-8: Standards
8-4-9: Disturbance Restrictions
8-4-10: Hazards
8-4-11: Inspection
8-4-12: Maintenance
8-4-13: Prohibited Conduct; Enforcement
8-4-14: Violations; Penalties
8-4-15: Appendices A And B
8-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SITE DISTURBANCE ORDINANCE OF BENEWAH
COUNTY. (Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6518.
(Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to protect property, surface water, and
groundwater against significant adverse effects from excavation, filling,
clearing, unstable earthworks, soil erosion, sedimentation, and stormwater
runoff and to provide maximum safety in the development and design of building
sites, roads, and other service amenities. (Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official appointed by the board of county commissioners to
administer provisions of this chapter.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Physical, structural and/or managerial
practices that, when used singly or in combination, prevent or reduce pollution
of water and erosion of soils.
BUFFER STRIP: A vegetative area that slows stormwater runoff and provides
filtration. The effectiveness of buffer strips is determined by several factors
that include soil type, slope, width, and vegetation type. Typically,
stormwater must enter the buffer strip as sheet flow for the buffer to provide
any significant treatment.
CLEARING: The destruction and removal of vegetation by manual, mechanical, or
chemical methods.
COMMUNITY STORMWATER SYSTEM: A BMP or series of BMPs which serve(s) more than
one parcel.
CONVEYANCE: A mechanism for transporting water from one point to another,
including pipes, ditches, and channels.
CUT: To excavate into a hillside to create a flat area or to steepen or flatten
a bank.
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL: A professional engineer, landscape architect, or
geologist, registered for their respective profession by the state of Idaho or
a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC), as determined
by the soil and water conservation society and the international erosion
control association.
DETENTION: The temporary storage of storm runoff, used to control the peak
discharge rates and provide gravity settling pollutants.
DRIVEWAY: For the purposes of managing and treating stormwater, a "driveway"
shall be a means of vehicular access from a public or private road to a point
within an individual lot which is less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in
length.
EASEMENT DRAINAGE: A legal encumbrance placed against a property for
maintenance access or to reserve other specified privileges for the users and
beneficiaries of the drainage facilities contained within the boundaries of the
easement.
EROSION: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind,
ice or gravity.
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL: Those best management practices (BMPs) which
are employed to prevent or reduce erosion or sedimentation and are typically
necessary when ground disturbance occurs (see definition of Best Management
Practices).
EXCAVATE: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or other earthen material
is cut into, dug, uncovered, displaced or relocated.
FILL: A solid material which increases the ground surface elevation or the act
of depositing such material by mechanical means.
FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A manmade feature designed or constructed to reduce
damage caused by flood events, including, but not limited to, a dam, dike,
channel, levy, or similar device.
GRADING: Any excavation, filling, or movement of earth for the purpose of
changing the shape or topography of the land.
GROUNDWATER: Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the land surface or a
surface water body.
GUARANTEE OF FINANCIAL SURETY: A surety bond, cash deposit, or escrow account,
irrevocable letter of credit, or other means acceptable to or required by the
county to guarantee that infrastructure or improvements are completed in
compliance with the project's approved plans.
HIGH WATER MARK: The line which impresses on the soil by covering it for
sufficient periods to deprive it of vegetation.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface area which either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil mantle as under natural conditions prior to
development, and/or a hard surface area which causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from the flow
present under natural conditions prior to development. Common "impervious
surfaces" include, but are not limited to, roofs, walkways, patios, driveways,
parking lots, or storage areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel and
compacted native surface roads, compacted earthen materials, and oiled, macadam
or other surfaces which similarly impede the natural infiltration of
stormwater.
NATURALLY OCCURRING DRAINAGE SWALE: Natural drainage conveyances that provide
for the discharge of stormwater to class 1 or class 2 streams, but have bed and
banks which are vegetatively covered and stable.
PRIVATE ROAD: A means of vehicular access which does not meet the definition of
"driveway" and is not maintained by a public highway agency.
PUBLIC HIGHWAY AGENCY: The Idaho transportation department, a highway district,
the Benewah County road districts, or other political subdivision of the state
with jurisdiction over public highways, public streets, and public rights of
way.
PUBLIC ROAD: Public highway or street which has been accepted for maintenance
by a public highway agency.
RETENTION: The holding of runoff in a basin without release except by means of
evaporation, infiltration, or emergency bypass.
SCARIFY: To break up or loosen the ground surface of the area.
SEDIMENT: Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of
rocks or unconsolidated deposits and is transported by, suspended in, or
deposited by, water.
SEDIMENTATION: The deposition of sediment on ground surfaces and in
watercourses.
SITE: The parcel of land on which grading or excavation activity is conducted.
A road right of way shall be considered a separate site from adjacent
properties.
SPOIL PILE: Soil and/or rock excavated from an area which may be used for
backfill or final grading on site.
STABILIZATION CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE: A stabilized pad of clean, crushed rock
located where traffic enters or leaves a construction site onto a paved public
or private road. The pad shall be a minimum of six inches (6") thick, with a
minimum rock size of two (2) to three inches (3"), and a length sufficient to
minimize off site tracking.
STORMWATER: That portion of precipitation that does not naturally percolate
into the ground or evaporate, but flows via overland flow, interflow, channels,
or pipes into a defined surface water channel, or a constructed infiltration
facility.
STORMWATER CONTROL: Those best management practices (BMPs) which are employed
to convey, direct, treat, or dissipate stormwater and are typically necessary
when impervious area is created or the natural drainage is interrupted (see
definition of Best Management Practices).
STREAM: A watercourse of perceptible extent which confines and conducts
continuously or intermittently flowing water. This definition is intended to
include streams in natural or manmade channels. This definition is not meant to
include dead end streams which do not support fish or other beneficial uses. A
"dead end" stream is one which infiltrates into the ground prior to reaching a
larger body of water.
STREAM CLASS 1: A stream which exhibits a definite bed and banks (a clay, silt,
sand, gravel, cobble, boulder, or bedrock stream bottom which results from the
scouring action of water flow) and is used for domestic water supply or by fish
for spawning, rearing, or migration. Such waters will be considered to be class
1 upstream from the point of domestic diversion for a minimum distance of one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320'). The St. Joe River, the St. Maries
River and all recognized Benewah County lakes are excluded from this definition
for the purposes of this chapter.
STREAM CLASS 2: A stream which exhibits a definite bed and banks (clay, silt,
sand, gravel, cobble, boulder, or bedrock stream bottom which results from the
scouring action of water flow) and is usually found in headwater area or minor
drainages and is not used by fish. Their principal value lies in their
influence on water quality or quantity downstream in class 1 streams.
SURFACE WATER: For purposes of this chapter, "surface water" shall include all
lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, and similar features and any feature which
acts as a conveyance of water to a surface water feature. Conveyance features
may include natural or manmade ditches. Ponds, springs, or similar features
that are entirely contained within the property shall not be considered surface
water features.
TREATMENT: Removal of sedimentation or other pollutants from stormwater.
UNDISTURBED NATURAL VEGETATION BUFFER: An area where no development activity
has occurred or will occur, including, but not limited to, logging,
construction of utility trenches, roads, structures, or surface and stormwater
facilities. Buffer areas shall be left in their natural state. (Ord. 2009-119,
4-27-2009)
8-4-5: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   General: This chapter shall be administered in a manner consistent with
other ordinances in Benewah County by an administrator as approved by the board
of county commissioners. Benewah County may, by resolution, adopt design
standards, plan criteria, best management practices, administrative procedures,
fee schedules, etc., intended to implement the requirements and standards set
forth in this chapter. Changes in the supporting documents may be accomplished
by subsequently adopted resolution.
   B.   Duration Of Permit: Permits shall expire if the work authorized by the
permit is not started within one hundred eighty (180) days of issuance of the
permit, or if work is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work has
started for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. The administrator may
grant a one time extension for an additional one hundred eighty (180) days on
written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control
of the permittee have prevented work authorized by the permit. The
administrator may set specific time limits to the permit for project initiation
and completion for environmental reasons or for coordination with other
permitted site work.
   C.   Guarantee Of Installation:
      1.   Subdivisions: Prior to initiating work on subdivision
infrastructure, the developer shall provide an acceptable guarantee of
financial surety to ensure that erosion control, site stabilization, and
stormwater management improvements will be completed. The design professional
shall provide an estimate of the cost to implement these improvements based on
the current local construction costs. Prior to release of the financial
guarantee, the developer's design professional shall submit a letter to the
county, approving the construction and certifying its completion.
      2.   High Risk Sites: For commercial and industrial development, or
development on high risk sites, the owner shall be required to provide an
acceptable guarantee of financial surety to the county prior to issuance of the
site disturbance permit. The design professional shall provide an estimate of
cost to implement the approved plan. Estimated costs shall be based upon the
current local construction costs. The financial guarantee shall be one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost to complete the plan. Prior to
release of the financial guarantee, the applicant's design professional shall
submit a letter to the county, approving the construction and certifying its
completion. If the required improvements have not been completed by the
specified date, the county may contract to have the work completed with the
money from the financial guarantee. The county may also take additional
enforcement actions as provided by law.
      3.   Moderate Risk Sites: For development on moderate risk sites, the
owner may be required to provide an acceptable guarantee of financial surety to
the county prior to issuance of the site disturbance permit. If required, the
owner shall provide an estimate of the cost to implement the approved plan,
subject to review and approval of the administrator. Estimated costs shall be
based upon the current local construction costs. The financial guarantee shall
be one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost to complete the plan.
Prior to release of the financial guarantee, the county shall conduct an
inspection to approve the construction and certify its completion.
      4.   Completion Date Enforced: If the required improvements have not been
completed by the specified date, the county may contract to have the work
completed with the money from the financial guarantee. The county may also take
additional enforcement actions as provided by law.
   D.   Appeals: Appeals concerning interpretation or administration of this
chapter may be taken by any person aggrieved. Such appeals shall be filed
within a reasonable time with the county clerk, not to exceed twenty eight (28)
days from the occurrence of the action being appealed. The Benewah County board
of commissioners shall hear the appeal. (Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-6: APPLICABILITY; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Exemptions:
      1.   The following activities are exempt from the permitting requirements
of this chapter:
         a.   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate, or clay when approved for operation under applicable
state and local regulations.
         b.   Agricultural practices in common local usage.
         c.   Activities governed by and subject to the forest practices act 1
.
d. Cemetery graves.
e. Emergency situations involving immediate danger to life or property,
substantial fire hazards, or other public safety hazards as subsequently
determined by the county, or during the period covered by an emergency
declaration by the county.
f. Refuse disposal or landfill operation authorized by permit from the
appropriate state and local agencies. Landfill construction shall not be exempt
from this chapter.
g. In any twelve (12) month period, excavation or placement of fill less than
fifty (50) cubic yards in volume, which does not obstruct a stream, drainage
course, or surface waters.
h. Public road, private road, or driveway maintenance where work is limited to
the travelway, no cut or fill slopes are created, no drainage features are
created or modified.
i. Excavation of test holes for soil testing activities; provided, that no
access road will be created for test hole excavation, and the total excavation
is less than fifty (50) cubic yards.
j. Grading, excavating and placement of fill on a site that has less than ten
percent (10%) slope, and is more than five hundred feet (500') from surface
water as defined by this chapter and results in disturbance of less than one-
third (1/3) of the parcel. This exemption shall not apply to commercial or
industrial development or for subdivision infrastructure development.
k. Grading, excavating or placement of fill which is subject to the regulations
and permitting process of the U.S. army corp of engineers, Idaho department of
lands or the Idaho department of water resources. Grading activities that are
related to such projects, but which are not subject to the aforementioned
agencies' regulations are not exempt.
2. Excavation and grading activities which are exempted from the permit
requirement under items A1g through A1k of this section shall employ reasonable
and knowledgeable best management practices to prevent sediment from leaving
the site.
B. Permit Required: Except as exempted under subsection A of this section, a
site disturbance permit shall be required for the following activities:
1. Construction of all new driveways, private and public roads, or
infrastructure authorized through the subdivision or conditional use permit
process.
2. Conversion of roads from one use to another (such as a logging road to a
private road, private road to a public road, etc.) regardless of the level of
improvement required on the road.
3. Excavation for the construction of structures.
4. Creation of a new commercial or industrial access or parking lot, and
conversion or paving of an existing access or parking lot for commercial or
industrial development.
5. All other excavation and grading activities, except as specifically exempted
under subsection A of this section.
C. Other Activities:
1. Site disturbing activities conducted by public highway agencies shall be
regulated as follows: Benewah County shall establish a memorandum of
understanding with each public highway agency outlining the requirements for
compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter within one year of
adoption of this chapter. If these memoranda are not completed, the following
standards shall apply:
a. For major projects such as road construction and reconstruction, compliance
with the permitting and plan review provisions of this chapter is required.
b. For minor activities such as road maintenance, the districts shall use
knowledgeable and reasonable best management practices to prevent sediment from
entering private property or waterways.
2. Site disturbing activities conducted by utility installers shall be
regulated as follows:
a. For major installation projects where utility service is regional in nature
intending to serve more than one subdivision or intending to upgrade existing
service to multiple subdivisions, or commercial or industrial projects, utility
installers shall comply with all requirements of this chapter.
b. All other work conducted by utility installers shall use knowledgeable and
reasonable best management practices to prevent sediment from leaving the site.
(Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 38-1301 et seq.
8-4-7: APPLICATION AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS:
A. Applications:
1. All applications for a site disturbance permit shall be submitted to the
county on a form provided by the county. At a minimum, the following
information shall be required:
a. Property owner's name, and applicant's name if different from the owner.
b. Legal description of property including parcel number.
c. A written description of the work to be done, including an estimate of the
amount of earth to be moved.
d. A site plan, drawn to scale, including property boundaries, north arrow,
adjacent roads, location of proposed work, and distances to property lines or
prominent features of the land.
2. Upon receipt of a completed application, the county will perform a site
inspection to determine the risk categories as outlined in appendices A and B,
section
8-4-15 of this chapter. Using the outcome of risk assessment, and the nature,
location, and time of year of the project, the administrator shall determine
whether the project is high, moderate or low risk.
B. Improvement Plans: The required elements of the site disturbance plans.
1. Plans prepared by a design professional shall be required in the following
circumstances:
a. Site disturbing activities governed by this chapter on high risk sites.
b. All commercial and industrial development.
c. When required under subsection 8-4-6C of this chapter.
d. Subdivision infrastructure development.
2. Plans for moderate risk sites may be prepared by a design professional,
contractor, or property owner.
3. The administrator may waive the submission of plans for minor improvements
if the standards of this chapter can be met by existing site conditions.
C. Interagency Coordination: The administrator may request comment from
affected agencies where appropriate. Where coordinate permits are necessary,
sign offs from permitting agencies or copies of other permits may be required.
Permit authorities may include, but not be limited to:
1. Public highway agencies for work within public rights of way, including
approach permits.
2. Army corp of engineers.
3. Idaho department of lands for encroachment into navigable waters, logging
activity under the forest practices act, and surface mining activity.
4. Environmental protection agency for site disturbing activity where an NPDES
permit is required.
5. Coeur d'Alene tribe for site disturbing activity within the boundaries of
the Coeur d'Alene Indian reservation.
6. Idaho department of water resources for work within stream channels. (Ord.
2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-8: STANDARDS:
A. Grading:
1. The slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended
use and shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1), unless
the design professional can demonstrate to the administrator substantial
evidence that steeper slopes are feasible, taking into account safety,
stability, erosion control, revegetation, and overall water quality impacts.
Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability. All
engineering reports are subject to review by the administrator.
2. Fill slopes shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use and shall
be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1), unless the design
professional can demonstrate to the administrator substantial evidence that
steeper slopes are feasible, taking into account safety, stability, erosion
control, revegetation, and overall water quality impacts. Fill slopes shall not
be constructed on natural slopes of forty percent (40%) (2.5 horizontal to 1
vertical) or steeper, without special treatment or design. In addition, the toe
of fill slopes shall not be closer to the top of existing or planned downhill
cut slopes than the height of that cut (e.g., if an 8 foot cut is planned, the
toe of the uphill fill slope shall not be closer than 8 feet to the top of that
cut), unless the design professional has demonstrated that comparable stability
can be achieved with lesser setbacks.
3. Prior to placement of fill, the ground surface shall be prepared to receive
fill by removing vegetation, topsoil, forest duff, and any other unsuitable
material. The area to receive fill shall be scarified to provide a bond with
the new fill. Fill shall not be placed until the area is prepared by
constructing a level or slightly insloped toe bench into competent material at
the base of the new fill. The administrator may waive the benching requirement
for minor fills which are not intended to support a road, driveway, or
structure. In high risk areas, the position, width, and configuration of the
bench shall be determined by a design professional. Fill slopes and the
transition zone into natural terrain shall be configured to a generally smooth,
planar configuration so that runoff traverses the area as sheet flow and is not
concentrated. Fill material shall be composed of mineral soil that is free of
organic material. Roadway fills shall be placed in lifts and compacted to a
minimum of ninety five percent (95%) of the maximum density as determined by
the AASHTO T 99 or ASTM D-698 compaction procedure, or as specified in the
design professional's report.
4. Except where roads and driveways cross property lines, the tops of cut and
fill slopes shall be set back from property boundaries one-half (1/2) of the
height of the slope with a minimum of five feet (5') and a maximum of twenty
feet (20'), unless the design professional has demonstrated to the
administrator that smaller setbacks provide a sufficient measure of safety and
stability for activities which may occur on adjacent property.
5. Terracing shall be required on all cut or fill slopes which exceed fifty
feet (50') in height. Spacing, width, and drainage requirements of the terrace
(s) shall be determined by the design professional.
B. Erosion And Sedimentation Control:
1. Erosion and sedimentation control BMPs for all sites must be sufficient to
prevent sediment from leaving the site.
2. Stabilized construction entrances and driveways shall be required for all
construction sites to minimize sediment tracking onto roadways.
3. The erosion and sedimentation control BMPs must be installed or otherwise in
effect, and the boundary of the area to be disturbed must be clearly marked, as
indicated in the approved plan, prior to any site disturbance.
4. All surfaces where bare soil is exposed during clearing and grading
operations, including spoil piles, shall be covered or otherwise protected from
erosion.
5. The property owner, contractor, and design professional shall be responsible
for the design and construction of revised temporary erosion and sedimentation
control if application of the approved plan fails. The applicant shall
immediately notify the administrator of alterations to plans.
6. All cut and fill slopes shall be revegetated or otherwise protected from
erosion to the greatest extent possible.
C. Stormwater Detention And Conveyance:
1. Stormwater conveyance mechanisms must be sized to convey runoff from a fifty
(50) year storm event without causing flooding or other damage to public or
private property, the stormwater management system or other improvements.
2. Culvert size within public rights of way shall be determined by the public
highway agency with jurisdiction.
3. Stormwater systems shall provide for sufficient storage volume and detention
time to result in no increase in the peak rate of runoff from the site for a
twenty five (25) year storm. Runoff from impervious and pervious surfaces shall
be considered in meeting this requirement.
D. Groundwater And Springs: Springs and other groundwater sources that are
encountered during grading or excavation activity shall be returned to
subsurface flow where possible or conveyed through the site by an appropriate
means of conveyance that shall be nonerosive, avoids sediment transport, and
dissipates energy, all in accordance with the best management practices. (Ord.
2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-9: DISTURBANCE RESTRICTIONS:
A. Stream Protection Zones: During and after construction operations,
streambeds and streamside vegetation shall be protected to leave them in the
most natural condition possible to maintain water quality and aquatic habitat.
1. Protection Zone Dimensions:
a. Class 1 stream protection zone: The area encompassed by a slope distance of
seventy five feet (75') on each side of the high water marks.
b. Class 2 stream protection zone: The area encompassed by a minimum slope
distance of thirty feet (30') on each side of the high water marks.
c. Naturally occurring drainage swale protection zone: The area encompassed by
a minimum slope distance of five feet (5') on each side of the top of a
naturally occurring drainage swale. In no case shall this protection zone have
a total width greater than thirty feet (30').
d. For lots legally created prior to the effective date hereof, the width of
any protection zone may be reduced to be no greater than forty percent (40%) of
the dimension of the lot perpendicular to the stream or body of water. (Ord.
2009-119, 4-27-2009)
e. Lots with frontage on a recognized lake or the St. Joe or St. Maries Rivers
stream protection zone: The area encompassed by the slope distance of forty
five feet (45') from the ordinary high water mark. (Ord. 2010-126, 6-28-2010)
2. Protection Zone Restrictions:
a. No mechanical ground disturbance shall be permitted within the protection
zone except at identified and permitted crossings. When disturbance is
necessary, across or inside a protection zone, it shall be done in such a
manner as to minimize stream bank vegetation and channel disturbance. The
extent of such disturbance shall be clearly indicated in the approved plans.
b. When streams must be crossed, adequate structures to carry the stream flow
shall be installed. Crossings and their approaches shall be at right angles to
the channel or otherwise configured to minimize the disturbance within the
protection zone. (Construction of hydraulic structures in stream channels is
regulated by the stream protection act 1
.) All temporary crossings shall be removed immediately after use.
c. Large organic debris (LOD), shading, wildlife cover, and water filtering
effects of vegetation shall be maintained along streams as outlined in the
Idaho forest practices act.
d. Existing site improvements which lie within a stream protection zone may be
replaced, altered, or enlarged, provided no addition or alteration encroaches
farther into the protection zone than the existing improvements, site
disturbing activity is minimized to the extent possible, and all other
requirements of this chapter are met.
e. For site disturbing activity not exempted under subsection 8-4-6A1k of this
chapter, the administrator may allow work within stream protection zones during
periods of low flow, in accordance with all other requirements of this chapter.
Prior to authorizing such work, the administrator shall consult with the Idaho
department of fish and game, or other agency(s) as appropriate, to determine
whether the timing or nature of the project will have an adverse impact on the
environment.
B. Waterfront Lots: For lots with frontage on a recognized lake or the St. Joe
or St. Maries Rivers, unless otherwise permitted, an undisturbed natural
vegetation buffer shall be retained at the waterfront. A stairway or walkway
(width not to exceed 4 feet), stairway landings (width not to exceed 6 feet),
or a tram shall be allowed to encroach within the buffer. The buffer shall be a
minimum of twenty five feet (25') slope distance from the high water mark of
the water body. The high water mark for all water bodies shall be determined by
on site inspection of evidence of historical water levels. (Ord. 2009-119, 4-
27-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 42, chapter 38.
8-4-10: HAZARDS:
Whenever the administrator determines that an existing excavation, embankment,
fill, or roadway on private property has become a hazard to life and limb;
endangers other property; adversely affects the safety, use, or stability of a
public or private access, drainage channel, or adjacent or contiguous
properties, the administrator may require the property owner(s) to eliminate
the hazard. The administrator shall give written notice to the owner or other
person(s) or agents(s) in control of the property. Within the period specified
in the notice, the owner(s) or their agents(s) shall have the hazard corrected.
(Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-11: INSPECTION:
A. General: All activities governed by these regulations shall be subject to
inspection by the county. An approved set of plans must be available for review
on site whenever work is in progress. It shall be the permittee's
responsibility to keep the county notified of the progress of the project and
call for all the required inspections.
B. High Risk Sites: At a minimum, two (2) inspections shall be required for
high risk sites: 1) after erosion and sedimentation controls have been
installed, prior to ground disturbance; and 2) after the project has been
completed, including revegetation; for sites which are active during the
winter, two (2) additional inspections shall be required: 3) after the site has
been prepared for the winter (typically in September or October); and 4)
sometime in January or February to ensure that the erosion and sedimentation
control measures are adequate and maintained. The permittee's design
professional shall perform the inspections and submit the reports to the
administrator.
C. Moderate Risk Sites: For moderate risk sites, the administrator shall
determine what inspections are necessary. The administrator, or his designee,
shall conduct the inspections for moderate risk sites.
D. Other Sites Where Risk Not Determined: For sites where notification is
required or other situations where the site risk has not been evaluated, the
administrator shall determine what inspections are necessary, if any. (Ord.
2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-12: MAINTENANCE:
Maintenance requirements and responsibility shall be clearly identified for all
projects where best management practices are employed, including BMPs for
erosion and sedimentation control and stormwater management. When a stormwater
system is designed to service more than one lot, a maintenance agreement
between all parties which benefit from the system must be established,
including assurances of adequate funding. Easements across private property for
maintenance access to community stormwater systems shall also be required where
necessary. All maintenance agreements must be approved by the administrator. In
the event that appropriate maintenance of any stormwater system is not
conducted, the county shall have the option of requiring property owner or
association to provide for maintenance, or to take other enforcement measures
as outline in section
8-4-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-13: PROHIBITED CONDUCT; ENFORCEMENT:
A. Prohibitions: The following actions shall be considered violations of this
chapter:
1. Failure to obtain a permit prior to the start of grading activity.
2. Failure to call for inspections as required by this chapter.
3. Once grading activity has begun, failure to complete the grading activity
and install the necessary erosion and sedimentation control, stormwater
management, and slope stabilization measures, in a timely manner.
4. Failure to maintain temporary and permanent erosion and sedimentation
control measures, the stormwater management system, or slope stabilization
measures.
5. Conduct work on a site which exceeds the scope of work outlined in the
approved plan.
6. Damage or otherwise impede the function of a stormwater system.
7. Export sediment from a site in a manner not authorized by this chapter.
8. Continue work at a site after a stop work order has been placed.
9. Discharge stormwater in a manner not authorized by this chapter.
10. Failure to correct a hazard as outlined in section
8-4-10 of this chapter.
B. Permit Revocation: If any of the above violations have occurred, the
administrator may revoke the permit, issue a notice of site disturbance
violation or order the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on any
persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be done. Such person shall
stop all site work until authorized by the administrator to proceed. The
administrator may also withhold further issuances of permits. Stop work orders
may be appealed in the same manner as other appeals.
C. Notice Of Violations:
1. In the event that a notice of site disturbance violation is issued, the
administrator shall prepare and mail, via certified mail, a notice of site
violation. The notification shall include:
a. The property owner and the legal description of the parcel.
b. The nature of the violation.
c. The remedial action that must be undertaken to resolve the violation.
d. The length of time allocated to resolve the violation.
2. The property owner shall have forty five (45) days from the date the notice
was mailed to resolve the violation. If resolution does not occur within forty
five (45) days, the notice of site disturbance violation shall be filed in the
county recorder's office and a copy mailed to the owner, via certified mail.
3. The notice of site disturbance violation shall also advise the owner of the
appeal process. The administrator may consider a written appeal, submitted by
the property owner, and received no later than thirty (30) days after the
notice of site disturbance violation was mailed. The appeal shall be heard by
the board of county commissioners on a day specified by the board. If the
appeal is denied, the board shall specify an exact number of days to gain
compliance with this chapter before the notice of site disturbance violation is
recorded. If the appeal is approved, the board will specify actions to be taken
by the administrator to release the violation. The board may elect to add or
remove conditions of remedial action.
D. Payment Of Fee; Release Of Notice: At such time as the site disturbance
violation is resolved, the owner shall pay the fee specified in the current
adopted schedule and the administrator shall file in the office of the county
recorder a release of site disturbance notice violation. The release shall
contain all of the information contained in the notice of site disturbance
violation, as well as the corrective action taken to resolve the violation. A
copy of the release shall be mailed to the owner, via certified mail. (Ord.
2009-119, 4-27-2009)
8-4-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter may be considered a criminal misdemeanor and shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The county may also take civil action to compel performance and completion of,
or maintenance of, improvements installed pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2009-
119, 4-27-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
8-4-15: APPENDICES A AND B:
A. Appendix A; Erosion Risk Assessment:
1. Slope, measured in percent, as an average across the area to be disturbed.
 
Gradient              Point Value
0 - 10 percent slope     1
11 - 25 percent slope    5
> 25 percent slope       10
2. Proximity to surface water or any feature which conveys water to surface
water. Surface water includes all lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, and similar
features. Conveyance features may include natural or manmade ditches. Ponds,
springs, or similar features that are contained within the property shall not
be considered surface water features. Distance is measured along the slope from
the closest boundary of the proposed disturbance to the conveyance or surface
water feature.
 
Distance             Point Value
>500 feet               1
201 feet to 500 feet    5
0 feet to 200 feet      10
3. Amount of disturbed area, expressed as a percentage of the parcel area.
Areas to be disturbed during installation of utilities must be included.
 
Disturbed Portion Point Value
0 - 33 percent       1
34 - 66 percent      5
67 - 100 percent     10
4. Buffer Strip. If the project has a useable buffer strip, which provides the
appropriate level of treatment for the type of project proposed, subtract ten
(10) points.
5. The points for each factor shall be added. The risk category shall be
determined from the point total as follows:
      0 - 8 = low risk
9 - 14 = moderate or high risk, administrator determination
      >15 = high risk
B. Appendix B; Stormwater Risk Assessment:
1. Slope, measured in percent, as an average across the area to be disturbed.
 
Gradient        Point Value
0 - 5 percent      0
6 - 10 percent     3
11 - 15 percent    6
16 - 25 percent    10
>25 percent        15
2. Proximity to surface water or any feature which conveys water to surface
water. Surface water includes all lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, and similar
features. Conveyance features may include natural or manmade ditches. Ponds,
springs, or similar features that are contained within the property shall not
be considered surface water features. Distance is measured along the slope from
the closest boundary of the proposed disturbance to the conveyance or surface
water feature.
 
Distance          Point Value
>500 feet            0
201 - 500 feet       5
0 feet - 200 feet    10
3. Impervious area ratio, expressed as a percentage of the parcel area covered
with impervious surfaces.
 
Coverage        Point Value
0 - 19 percent     0
20 - 40 percent    5
>40 percent        10
4. Total impervious area, expressed in square feet.
 
Coverage            Point Value
20,000 or greater      5
<20,000 square feet    0
5. If the project requires crossing a conveyance channel or drainage, add five
(5) points.
6. Buffer strip; if the project has a useable buffer strip, which provides the
appropriate level of treatment for the type of project proposed, subtract ten
(10) points.
7. The points for each factor shall be added. The risk category shall be
determined from the point total as follows:
 
15 points or greater High risk
0 - 14 points        Low to moderate risk
(Ord. 2009-119, 4-27-2009)
CHAPTER 5
RECREATIONAL LAND AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Application Of Provisions
8-5-3: Definitions
8-5-4: Sanitary Requirements For All Recreational Land
8-5-5: Recreational Vehicle Park Requirements
8-5-6: Site Standards
8-5-7: Violations And Penalties
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, general
welfare, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of the County and the
inhabitants thereof. (Ord. 2018-140, 3-12-2018)
8-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall apply to all lands within the unincorporated areas of the
County and provide general guidelines in the use of recreational land. (Ord.
2018-140, 3-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-153, 9-12-2022)
8-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
RECREATIONAL LAND: Rural land used in conjunction with recreation but not
individual homesites. Includes vacant recreational land, which is vacant rural
land used for recreational purposes but not individual homesites and improved
recreational land which is rural land with improvements, including exempt
improvements, used for recreational purposes on that land but not individual
homesites.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper or
camping trailer, with or without motor power, designed for human habitation for
recreational or emergency occupancy. Buses or van type vehicles which are
converted to recreational use are also defined as recreational vehicles.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A parcel of land upon which is established or
maintained for rent or lease for occupancy by three (3) or more recreational
vehicles for temporary use for seasonal, recreation or vacation purposes. The
park includes all buildings and open space used or intended for use as part of
the facilities.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilets, laundry or other sanitary
facilities.
SITE: A location on recreational land which contains utility hookups (water,
sewer and/or electric) or otherwise designated RV pad(s). Each parcel of
recreational land is defined to contain at least one recreational site, whether
or not it contains utility hookups or a designated RV pad. Additional sites are
identified by additional hookups or by additional designated RV pads, or in the
absence of hookups or designated RV pads, by each clearly identifiable area in
which a recreational vehicle or structure is regularly located. (Ord. 2018-140,
3-12-2018)
8-5-4: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL RECREATIONAL LAND:
Owners of recreational land must comply with the following general
requirements:
   A.   Sewage: Any sewage disposal systems must be permitted through the Idaho
Health District and meet State of Idaho requirements.
   B.   Refuse Disposal: Refuse disposal on recreational land is subject to the
Benewah County solid waste regulations. A solid waste collection fee in an
amount as set by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, shall be
charged per recreational site. (Ord. 2018-140, 3-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-153,
9-12-2022)
8-5-5: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK REQUIREMENTS:
Owners of all recreational vehicle parks, whether new or existing, must comply
with the following general requirements:
   A.   Service Buildings: Each recreational vehicle park shall have at least
one service building providing at a minimum, one restroom facility for every
three (3) sites. Portable sanitation toilets, septic/drain fields or dump
stations may be provided in lieu of permanent service buildings. Service
buildings shall have a minimum setback of ten feet (10') from recreational
vehicle sites.
   B.   Sewage: All sewage disposal apparatus, including appurtenances thereto,
shall be maintained and operated so as not to create a nuisance or health
hazard. Sewer hook-ups must have air-tight connections. Sewage, including gray
water, must not be allowed to leak or seep onto the grounds or parking site.
Sewage disposal systems must be permitted through the Idaho Health District and
meet State of Idaho requirements.
   C.   Refuse Disposal: Refuse disposal for each recreational vehicle park is
subject to the Benewah County solid waste ordinance as it applies to commercial
accounts. The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be
maintained as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
area, accident hazards or air pollution. All refuse shall be stored in
flytight, watertight, rodentproof containers, which shall be provided, in
sufficient number and capacity to prevent any refuse from overflowing. The
minimum required capacity of refuse disposal bins shall be as follows:
 
Number Of Sites Capacity
1 - 3           3 yards
3 - 9           6 yards
10 or more      10 yards
 
If the property owner fails to provide and pay for commercial solid waste
disposal as set forth herein, a solid waste collection fee in an amount as set
by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, shall be charged per
recreational site.
   D.   Fire Protection: The recreational vehicle park shall comply with the
International Fire Code to the extent applicable.
   E.   Noise And Outdoor Lighting: Each recreational vehicle park shall
institute and enforce quiet hours from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and shall require all outdoor lighting to be turned off between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   F.   Density: No greater number of recreational vehicles shall be allowed to
remain in any park than the number of designated sites.
   G.   Buildings, Utilities, And Sanitation: All buildings, water, electrical,
plumbing installations and sanitation systems must comply with all applicable
County and State regulations, statutes and ordinances.
   H.   County And State Regulations: In addition to the requirements set forth
herein, all recreational vehicle parks must comply with all applicable County
and State regulations, statutes and ordinances. (Ord. 2018-140, 3-12-2018; amd.
Ord. 2022-153, 9-12-2022)
8-5-6: SITE STANDARDS:
The following site standards must be met in all new recreational vehicle parks
and when major improvements are made to any existing recreational vehicle park.
"Major improvements" shall be defined as a twenty five percent (25%) increase
in the number of sites in the park, as it exists as of the effective date
hereof.
   A.   Each recreational vehicle site shall have a width of not less than
twenty five feet (25') and a depth of not less than thirty feet (30') and shall
abut on an access road. Such sites shall be clearly defined and marked on each
corner with permanent markers. Recreational vehicles shall be parked in such
sites so that there will be a minimum of ten feet (10') between vehicles.
   B.   No recreational vehicle site shall be located closer than twenty feet
(20') from the main road, and must be at a minimum ten feet (10') from the
property line.
   C.   Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment, removal of
garbage and refuse and for other necessary services must be provided. A minimum
of a twenty foot (20') access road must be provided.
   D.   A minimum of one guest parking space shall be provided for each
recreational vehicle site.
   E.   The entrances to the park shall have a minimum width of forty feet
(40') and connected by an access road. Each entranceway shall be located not
closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any intersection of a public
street or highway. No parking shall be allowed for a distance of one hundred
feet (100') from the intersection of a public street or highway. All
entranceways shall be designed to minimize congestion and hazards and allow
free movement of traffic on adjacent streets.
   F.   Exposed ground surfaces shall be paved or covered with crushed rock or
other solid material or protected with vegetation growth that is capable of
preventing soil erosion and eliminating dust.
   G.   Site preparation, construction, grading and drainage shall be subject
to the Benewah County site disturbance ordinance, floodplain ordinance where
applicable, must be performed so that water will drain away from the
recreational vehicle sites, buildings, service and recreational areas, and for
storage on the site in a manner that will provide reasonable freedom from
erosion. Walks, driveways and retaining walls must be so constructed as not to
interfere with drainage. Storm drainage from the park shall not enter into
creeks or drainage ways in such a manner as would cause peak volumes and flows
to differ from those that would occur if the land were left in its natural and
present condition. (Ord. 2018-140, 3-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-153, 9-12-2022)
8-5-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Inspections: The County Commissioners, Benewah County Sheriff, or their
designated agent(s) are hereby authorized to make inspections to determine the
condition of recreational land located within the County in safeguarding the
health and safety of recreational users, park occupants and of the general
public.
   B.   Civil Action:
      1.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, or of
any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the County Commissioners or their
designated agent(s) may give notice of such alleged violation to the property
owner(s) and direct necessary corrective actions.
      2.   Compliance With Notice: Any person to whom such a notice is directed
shall comply therewith immediately.
      3.   Failure to Comply: Failure to comply with a written notice of
violation, may result in an order from the County directed at the property
owner(s) shutting down the operation of the recreational vehicle park until
full compliance with this chapter has been achieved.
      4.   Repeated Violations: Repeat violations of this chapter may result in
an order from the County directed at the property owner(s) shutting down the
operations of the recreational vehicle park indefinitely.
      5.   Injunction: The County may take steps to civilly enjoin any
violation of this chapter.
   C.   Criminal Action:
      1.   Violation Of This Chapter Is A Misdemeanor: Every property owner who
willfully violates any provision of this chapter or fails or neglects to comply
with any requirements of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during any part of which any such violation or noncompliance occurs and is
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than thirty (30) days, or both
such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 2018-140, 3-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-153, 9-
12-2022)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Authority And Purposes
9-1-3: Compliance With Subdivision Regulations
9-1-4: Scope, Applicability And Exemptions
9-1-5: Administration
9-1-6: Definitions
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the BENEWAH COUNTY SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The regulations of this title are authorized by
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, title 67, chapter 65, and article XII, section
2 of the Idaho Constitution.
   B.   Purposes: The purposes of this title are to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare, and to provide for:
      1.   The harmonious development of Benewah County in conformance with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision and
other existing or planned streets and roads.
      3.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation.
      4.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities.
      5.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
         a.   The lack of water supply, adequate sewage disposal, drainage,
transportation or other public services.
         b.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of the
public funds for the supply of such services.
      6.   The requirements as to the extent and manner in which:
         a.   Roads shall be created and improved.
         b.   Water and other utility mains, piping connections, or other
facilities shall be developed.
      7.   To protect the character, the social and economic stability and to
encourage the orderly and beneficial development of the County.
      8.   To prevent the pollution of air and water; to assure the adequacy of
drainage facilities; to encourage the wise use and management of natural
resources throughout the County in order to preserve the integrity, stability,
and value of the land.
      9.   The manner and form of making and filing of the plat.
      10.   The administration of this title by defining the powers and duties
of approval authorities. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-
2023)
9-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for a proprietor, subdivider or developer to subdivide any
real property within the County unless such person, proprietor, subdivider or
developer has first fully complied with the procedures and provisions of this
title and obtained the approval or approvals of and for such subdivision as
required in this title. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018)
9-1-4: SCOPE, APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Scope And Applicability: This title shall not apply to any lot or lots
forming a part of any subdivision created and recorded prior to August 14,
1972, except for the further dividing of any parcel; nor is it intended by this
title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or interfere with
existing provisions of other laws, ordinances, or regulations, or with private
restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private
agreements, or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which the
County is a party. Where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the land
than is imposed or required by any other law, ordinance or regulation, the
provisions of this title shall control.
   B.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from this title:
      1.   Land divisions where each resulting parcel is twenty (20) acres or
larger (or a comparable 1/32 section aliquot part).
      2.   Divisions made by testamentary provisions, the laws of descent, or
upon court order.
      3.   Divisions made for cemeteries or burial plots while used for that
purpose.
      4.   Boundary line adjustments where no additional lots are created.
      5.   Divisions for the conveyance of land to a public entity or
recognized private or public utility company.
      6.   A single division of a parcel for the sole purpose of obtaining
financing, provided the portion encumbered and the remainder parcel remain
under single ownership and that both parcels so created consolidate again into
a single parcel upon satisfaction of the debt. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd.
Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022)
9-1-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The provisions of this title shall be administered by the Board of County
Commissioners, or their delegated agent. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018)
9-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
 
ADMINISTRATOR: An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices of subdividing,
               who is appointed by the Board to administer this title.
ALLEY:         A public or private right-of-way shown on a plat which provides secondary access
               to a lot, block or parcel of land.
AS BUILT       Revised construction plans in accordance with all approved field changes.
PLANS:
               An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets,
BLOCK:         highways or ways, (except alleys) and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
               subdivision.
BOARD:         The Benewah County Board of County Commissioners.
BOUNDARY LINE  The adjustment of property lines between two or more existing contiguous lots or
ADJUSTMENT:    tracts or parcels of land.
               A line parallel with a property line, street right-of-way line, shore of a lake,
BUILDING LINE  edge of a stream, or river bank, established on a parcel of land or on a lot for
OR SETBACK     the purpose of prohibiting construction of a building between such line and such
LINE:          property line, street right-of-way, shore of a lake, edge of a stream, or river
               bank.
CAPTION:       The name by which a plat is legally and commonly known.
COMMERCIAL     A planned commercial center providing building, parking and service areas,
DEVELOPMENT:   screen planting and widening and turning movement and safety lane roadway
               improvements.
               A plan adopted by the County for the physical development of the County showing
COMPREHENSIVE  the general location of major streets, parks, public building sites, land use
PLAN:          and similar information. The plan may consist of maps, data and other
               descriptive matter.
CROSSWALKWAY   Right-of-way dedicated to public use and which crosses a block to facilitate
(PEDESTRIAN    pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
WALKWAY):
DEDICATION:    The intentional conveyance of land by the owner to public or quasi-public use.
               A legal encumbrance placed against a property for access or for other specific
EASEMENT:      purposes, including public utility easements granted for facilities providing
               service to the property or neighboring properties.
               That area of land adjoining the channel of a river, stream, watercourse, lake or
FLOODPLAIN:    other similar body of water which will be inundated by a flood which can
               reasonably be expected for that region, based on one hundred (100)year frequency
               as defined in the Benewah County flood damage prevention ordinance.
GOVERNING      The Board of County Commissioners of Benewah County, Idaho.
BODY:
GREENBELTS OR  A strip or parcel of land, privately restricted or publicly dedicated as open
BUFFER PARKS:  space, located between incompatible uses for the purpose of protecting and
               enhancing the residential environment.
HIGHWAY        The State Highway District.
DEPARTMENT:
HIGHWAY        A legally authorized and recognized highway district.
DISTRICT:
IFC:           Acronym for international fire code.
               Any structure incident to servicing or furnishing facilities for a subdivision
               such as grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, driveway approaches,
IMPROVEMENTS:  sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
               culverts, bridges, utilities, lagoons, slips, waterways, lakes, bays, canals,
               and other such items, together with all appurtenant construction.
INDUSTRIAL     A planned industrial area designed specifically for industrial use and providing
DEVELOPMENT:   screened buffers, wider streets and turning movement, and safe roadway
               improvements where necessary.
LHTAC:         Acronym for local highway technical assistance council.
LOT:           A platted portion of a parcel or tract of land which is described and fixed in
               and by a recorded plat.
LOT DEPTH:     The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines as measured along
               the median between the side lot lines.
LOT WIDTH:     The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along the median
               between the front and rear lot lines.
PARCEL OR      A.   Unplatted Parcel Or Tract: A contiguous area of land located within a
TRACT:         single section, described in a single accepted conveyance; separately existing,
               and capable of being separately conveyed.
               B.   Platted Parcel Or Tract: A lot legally created in an accepted plat, each
              legal lot standing alone; either publicly or privately, and capable of being
               separately conveyed.
PARENT PARCEL: A parent parcel is the complete contiguous parcel within a single section as
               defined by its legal description owned as of August 14, 1972.
PLANNING       The Planning and Zoning Commission of Benewah County, Idaho, as established by
COMMISSION:    the Board of County Commissioners thereof.
               The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, townsite or other tract of land, or a
PLAT:          replatting of such, including certifications, descriptions, and approvals that
              comply with this title; two (2) types of plats are contemplated by the
               provisions of this title and are defined as follows:
Preliminary    A map showing the salient features of a proposed subdivision of land submitted
Plat:          to an approving authority for the purpose of preliminary consideration.
Final Plat:    A map of a subdivision of land made up in final form ready for approval and
               recording.
PROPRIETOR,    A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or combination of
SUBDIVIDER OR  any of them, which may hold any recorded or unrecorded ownership interest in
DEVELOPER:     land.
PUBLIC         A hearing held pursuant to the Local Land Use Planning Act and title 11, chapter
HEARING:       1 of this Code.
PUBLIC OPEN    Land dedicated and accepted by the county for use by the general public,
SPACE:         including, but not limited to, parks, parkways, or recreation areas.
               All persons, firms, corporations, partnerships, or municipal or other public
PUBLIC         authority providing gas, electricity, water, steam, telephone, telegraph, storm
UTILITY:       sewers, sanitary sewers, transportation, communication, or other services of
               similar nature.
REGIONAL
HEALTH         Panhandle Regional Health District no. 1 of the Idaho Department of Health.
DISTRICT:
RIGHT-OF-WAY:  Land reserved, used, or to be used for a street, alley, walkway, or other public
               purpose.
ROAD           The Benewah County Road Department.
DEPARTMENT:
SECONDARY LOT: A platted parcel or tract or land described in a recorded plat which does not
               have frontage on a body of water.
SIGHT          The unobstructed vision on a horizontal plane along a street centerline from a
DISTANCE:      driver eye height of three point seventy- five (3.75) feet to an object height
               of six inches (6").
SIMPLE         The division of any parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels for the purpose
DIVISION:      of transfer of ownership or development and where subdivision approval is not
               required. See also Chapter, 7 Parcel Division Regulations.
STREET:        A right-of-way which provides for vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting
               properties, types of which are:
Arterial       Those streets of considerable continuity which are or may be used primarily for
Street:        fast or heavy traffic.
Collector      Those streets used to carry traffic from minor streets to arterial streets to
Street:        large residential developments.
Cul-De-Sac:    A vehicular turnaround, as defined by LHTAC or IFC.
               Those streets designed for high speed, high volume through traffic, with
Freeway:       completely controlled access, no grade crossings, and no private driveway
               connections.
               A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to arterial streets and which
Frontage Road: provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic but
               not carrying through traffic.
Limited        Those streets designed for high speed, high volume traffic, with full or
Access:        partially controlled access, some grade crossings, but no driveway connections.
Minor Street:  A street which is intended primarily for access to abutting properties.
Parkway:       A street designed for noncommercial, pleasure oriented traffic moving at
               moderate speeds between and through scenic areas and parks.
STREET WIDTH:  The shortest distance between the lines delineating the rights-of-way of
               streets.
               Any division of any platted or unplatted parent parcel in existence on August
               14, 1972, subject to the exemptions listed in section 9-1-4B, into five (5) or
SUBDIVISION:   more parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development where any
               resulting parcel is less than twenty (20) acres (or less than a comparable 1/32
               section aliquot part), types of which are:
               Any subdivision which is intended solely for recreational purposes, and for
               which every resulting parcel will have a plat restriction limiting building of
Recreational   structures to: (1) non- residential construction, (2) no more than one (1)
Subdivision:   unenclosed structure, such as an open-air picnic or RV cover; (3) no enclosed
               structure greater than two hundred (200) square feet; and (4) no more than one
               (1) enclosed structure, such as a gardening/storage structure, two hundred (200)
               square feet or less, per lot;
Rural          Any subdivision (not including Recreational Subdivisions) where all resulting
Subdivision:   parcels are five (5) acres or larger, except any lot dedicated to a public or
               quasi-public entity;
Urban/Suburban Any subdivision (not including Recreational Subdivisions) where any resulting
Subdivision:   parcel is less than five (5) acres.
SURVEYOR:      A licensed professional surveyor authorized to perform land surveying in the
               State of Idaho.
               A map showing existing physical characteristics with contour lines at sufficient
TOPOGRAPHICAL  intervals to permit determination of proposed grades and drainage. (Ord. 2018-
MAP:           139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023; Ord.
               2024-162, 11-25-2024)
 
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Enforcement And Penalties
9-2-2: Fees
9-2-1: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Final Plat Approval And Filing: No person shall sell, lease, or
transfer, or offer for sale, lease, or transfer, any land subject to the
requirements of this title until a final plat has been approved by the Board
and recorded in the records of Benewah County.
   B.   Compliance With Subdivision Regulations Required: No building permit,
septic tank permit or other development permit shall be issued for any lot,
tract, or parcel of land divided in violation of this title. The prosecuting
attorney may, in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary,
take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title.
   C.   Penalty Imposed For Violations: Violation of any of the provisions of
this title, or the Idaho Code, or failure to comply with any of its
requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense; provided, however, that the maximum
punishment for each offense shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public
official, or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or
maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the Board or any other public official(s) or
private citizen(s) from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain
or prevent any violation of this title or the Idaho Code. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-
2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord. 2024-162, 11-25- 2024)
9-2-2: FEES:
An application fee shall be paid at the time of the submission of the
application for approval, in accordance with any fee schedule adopted by
resolution by the Board of County Commissioners. In addition to the payment of
application fees, the applicant shall be required to reimburse Benewah County
for all professional surveying, engineering fees or legal fees incurred by
Benewah County for all plan reviews. All required fees shall be paid in advance
with the application, and all professional fees shall be reimbursed to Benewah
County before the verification, approval or recording of the plat. A schedule
of fees shall be established by the Board of County Commissioners and filed in
the County Clerk's Office and may be amended from time to time upon resolution
duly enacted by the Board. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-
2022)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Subdivision Approval Required
9-3-2: Sketch Plan
9-3-3: Preliminary Plat
9-3-4: Final Plat
9-3-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Approval Required: No proprietor, subdivider or developer shall
subdivide any real property within the County until such time as said
proprietor, subdivider or developer has submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and secured required approvals in accordance with the procedures and
provisions hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Exceptions: Exceptions not requiring action by this title are as set
out in subsection
9-1-4B of this title. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018)
9-3-2: SKETCH PLAN:
   A.   Submission To The Building And Planning Department: A subdivision
sketch plan shall be submitted to the Planning Administrator prior to the
filing of any preliminary plat application.
   B.   Contents Of Sketch Plan: The sketch plan shall show the developmental
scheme of the proposed subdivision in schematic form, including the area
proposed for immediate development, and including the following:
      1.   The general layout of streets, blocks and lots in sketch form.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site.
      3.   Any general area set aside for schools, parks and other public
facilities.
   C.   Review: The Planning Administrator shall review the sketch plan with
the subdivider or his agent. The review will address:
      1.   Compliance of the proposal with existing land use plans.
      2.   The general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal with this
title.
      3.   Determination if additional special permits are needed.
      4.   Any special concerns the Planning Administrator may have.
      5.   Considerations of other local or State agencies that the subdivider
should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018;
amd. Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023)
9-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: For all subdivisions, the subdivider shall file with the
Planning Department a complete subdivision application form and the preliminary
plat data as required in this title. Applications will be processed in
accordance with title 11, chapter 1, “Administration Of Land Use Application
Permits”, of this Code.
   B.   Content Of Preliminary Plat: The subdivider shall submit to the
Planning Department, the following:
      1.   Ten (10) copies of said preliminary plat of the subdivision, drawn
in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated; each copy of said
preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have dimensions of not
less than eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24"), shall be drawn to
such a scale as will permit the whole thereof to be placed on one single sheet
of paper, shall show the drafting date and shall contain a graphic scale and
north arrow.
      2.   When applicable, the subdivider at this time may submit preliminary
engineering plans for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other required
public improvements; said engineering plans shall contain sufficient
information and detail to enable the Planning and Zoning Commission to make a
preliminary determination as to conformance of the proposed improvements to
applicable County regulations, ordinances, and standards.
      3.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat on
a form prescribed by the Planning and Zoning Commission including the type of
subdivision.
      4.   The fee established for review of plats.
      5.   Groundwater report or study, which shall contain the following
information:
         a.   For a subdivision to be served by individual or shared wells:
            (1)   Documentation by an Idaho licensed professional engineer
(P.E.) or geologist (P.G.) that the proposed water supply source has sufficient
production capability to provide drinking water and that a location is
available within each lot for installation of a well without conflicting with
proposed septic tank or drain field.
            (2)   Available well logs which cover a minimum radius of one-half
(½) mile of the boundary of the proposed subdivision site.
               (A)   For residential uses, one thousand five hundred gallons
per day (1,500 gpd) with a minimum flow of five gallons per minute (5 gpm) for
four (4) hours, per residence, or the latest DEQ approved method of estimating
water demand, will be considered adequate.
               (B)   For low flow wells, storage may be provided to meet this
requirement.
         b.   For subdivision to be served by connection to an existing public
water system, a will-serve letter from the owner of the system which indicates
that the system owner has sufficient reserve production capacity to supply
water to the lots in the proposed subdivision and including any system owner
conditions or requirements.
         c.   For Recreational Subdivisions, documentation that the proposed
service lot can support the community water source.
      6.   Sanitary sewer waste disposal plan containing the following
information:
         a.   For subdivisions to be served by a private sewage disposal
system, a sewage disposal system test hole inspection report, for each proposed
lot, completed through Panhandle Health District (or in the case of
Recreational Subdivisions, documentation that the proposed service lot can
support the required sewer dump station).
         b.   For subdivision to be served by connection to an existing public
sewer system, a will serve letter from the owner of the system which indicates
that the system owner has sufficient reserve production capacity to accept
solid waste from the lots in the proposed subdivision and including any system
owner conditions or requirements.
   C.   Requirements Of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on any
preliminary plat submitted:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   The names and contact information of the subdivider or subdividers
and the surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.   The legal description of the land included in the subdivision.
      4.   The names of any abutting subdivisions and/or any abutting property
owners.
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as: residential single-family; two-family and multiple housing; industrial,
recreational; or agricultural; together with a showing of the proposed sites,
if any, of multi-family dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industrial
establishments, and any other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family
residences; and further, a showing of any sites proposed for parks,
playgrounds, schools, or other public uses.
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
      7.   A location map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius, drawn to scale).
      8.   Streets, street names, rights-of-way and roadway widths including
adjoining streets or roadways.
      9.   Lot lines, dimensions and numbers, and the total number of lots by
block.
      10.   The plat shall include contours shown at ten foot (10') intervals
where land slope is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2')
intervals where land slope is ten percent (10%) or less.
      11.   Engineered drawings of any proposed or existing utilities
including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, bridges, culverts,
water mains, and fire hydrants.
      12.   Any proposed dedications to the public and/or private entities, and
easements, together with a statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of
such.
      13.   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this title describing the particular provisions,
the variance requested, and the reasons therefor.
   D.   Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, including all
other required data as provided for herein, and technical review by the County
surveyor, the Administrator shall certify the application as complete and shall
affix the date of application acceptance thereupon. The Administrator shall
thereafter place the preliminary plat on the agenda for consideration at a
regular or special meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission to be
processed in accordance with the Local Land Use Planning Act and title 11,
chapter 1 of this Code.
      2.   Notification To Other Agencies: The County shall give notice to all
political subdivisions serving the property in accordance with the Local Land
Use Planning Act and title 11, chapter 1 of this Code.
   E.   Public Notification: Notice of the public hearing shall be provided in
accordance with the Local Land Use Planning Act and title 11, chapter 1 of this
Code.
   F.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
review the preliminary plat, comments from concerned persons and agencies to
arrive at a recommendation to the Board on the preliminary plat.
      2.   Commission Findings: In determining the acceptance of the proposed
subdivision, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the objectives
of this title and at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the Comprehensive Plan.
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
         c.   Other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission’s attention.
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend approval, conditional approval, disapproval, or table for additional
information. The recommendation and the reasons for such recommendation shall
be stated in writing and forwarded to the applicant. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall also forward the recommendation, together with a copy of the
preliminary plat to the Board for their consideration.
      4.   Board Consideration: Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning
Commission’s recommendations, the Board shall process the application in   
accordance with applicable State law and subsection
11-1-4D of this Code and shall either approve, conditionally approve or reject
the same, stating, in writing, the reasons for any rejection or any conditions
for approval.
      5.   Approval Duration: Failure to file the final plat within two (2)
years after action by the Board shall cause all approvals of said subdivision
plan to be null and void, unless an extension of one year has been applied for
by the applicant and approved by the Board. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd.
Ord. 2022-152, 9-12- 2022; Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023; Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-
2024)
9-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat for all subdivisions, the subdivider may cause the total
parcel, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared. The final plat shall be
prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. Upon submittal of a
written application and three (3) copies of the final plat and verification of
compliance with the other requirements as provided for herein and not later
than fifteen (15) days prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission regularly
scheduled meeting, the Administrator shall certify the application as complete
and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
   B.   Form And Content: The final plat shall include and be in compliance
with all the items required in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13. It shall be
drawn in ink on reproducible material (Mylar intermediate or drafting film 3
mil or thicker without binding strip) eighteen inches by twenty seven inches
(18" x 27") in size and will show the following:
      1.   The point of beginning of the subdivision description shall be tied
to at least two (2) government survey corners, or in lieu of government survey
corners to monuments recognized by the County Surveyor.
      2.   Location and description of monuments and markings there on.
      3.   Tract boundary lines, property lines, lot lines, street rights-of-
way and centerlines, other rights-of-way and easements; with accurate
dimensions in feet and decimals to the hundredth of a foot thereof, bearings in
degrees, minutes and seconds, radii, arcs, central angle, and chord lengths of
all curves to the above accuracy.
      4.   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions.
      5.   Location, dimension and purpose of all easements.
      6.   Lots numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision and
the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block.
      7.   The outline of any property, other than streets or alleys, which is
offered for dedication to public use, fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings
with the area marked “public” and showing the proposed use.
      8.   A title which shall include the name of the subdivision, name of
city, if appropriate, County and State, and the location and description of the
subdivision referenced to section, township and range.
      9.   Graphic scale, north arrow, and date.
      10.   Location, width, and names of all existing or dedicated streets or
other public ways within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
      11.   Three (3) copies of the final engineer’s drawing for streets,
water, sewers, sidewalks and public improvements.
      12.   Proof of ownership and title report current within thirty (30) days
of final plat submittal.
      13.   Method of assuring the construction of all improvements may
include: construction before filing plat, cash deposit (100 percent), certified
check (100 percent), performance and payment bond (100 percent) or an
irrevocable bond as letter of credit one hundred ten percent (110%) of
estimated cost.
   C.   Other Certificates: The final plat will also contain the following
certificates:
      1.   A notarized certificate of title, in the dedicatory statement of the
plat showing ownership and dedication.
      2.   Certification by a licensed surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho,
that the plat survey is accurate and conforms to the provisions of these
regulations.
      3.   Certification by the Planning and Zoning Commission Chairman that
the final plat as presented meets the conditions of the preliminary plat and
conforms to these regulations.
      4.   Certification by the Health District Officer that the plat conforms
to the Health Department regulations and is approved for the type of system(s)
proposed.
      5.   Certification by the County surveyor that the plat conforms with the
State and County requirements for location and recording of monuments.
      6.   Certification by the County Treasurer that the taxes on the
described property are current.
      7.   Certification by the Board of County Commissioners that the plat
meets all County requirements and that suitable guarantees for performance of
all work in conjunction with the construction of roads, water drainage, fire
and sewerage systems, or any other necessary community benefits have been
completed.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission Approval: The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall review any final plats submitted for approval in accordance
with the Local Land Use Planning Act and title 11, chapter 1 of this Code. At
such time, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review said final plat and
determine whether or not the same meets the requirements of chapter 4 of this
title and shall thereupon recommend to the Board, in writing, either: approve
or disapprove. In all cases, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall set forth
the reasons for its action concerning any proposed final plat in its official
minutes, and shall submit a written report of the same to the Board.
   E.   Board Review: The Board shall consider any submitted final plat,
together with the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission
concerning the same in accordance with the Local Land Use Planning Act and
title 11, chapter 1 of this Code. The Board shall either approve or disapprove
the proposed final plat, and, if the same is disapproved, the Board shall
advise the subdivider of such and state the reasons therefor, in writing. The
Clerk shall record all such proceedings in the minutes of such meetings, which
minutes shall be open to public inspection. Upon approval of any final plat by
the Board, the Clerk shall sign the required certificate of approval thereon on
behalf of the Board.
   F.   Improvements And Facilities Required: Prior to approval of any final
plat, the Board may:
      1.   Require all improvements and facilities to be completed; or
      2.   In the event the Board does not so require, the Board shall require
that the subdivider enter into a contract with the Board wherein such
subdivider contracts that all such required improvements and facilities will be
completed pursuant to such contract. Performance of any such contract shall be
guaranteed by a cash deposit, certified check, surety bond, or irrevocable bank
letter of credit in an amount sufficient to secure such performance and as
determined by the Board; provided, however, that the Board shall not require
any bond duplicating any bond posted as required by another governmental
agency. Any security hereunder shall be rebated or credited to the account of
the proprietor in proportion to the progress of the performance secured thereby
and as stated in written agreement between the Board and the subdivider.
   G.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the Board and
completion or posting of performance guarantee for all required improvements
and facilities, the subdivider shall submit final plat to the County Recorder
for recording. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord.
2024-162, 11- 25-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Minimum Design Standards
9-4-2: Street And Road Dedication
9-4-3: Street And Road Location
9-4-4: Street And Road Specifications
9-4-5: Street Names
9-4-6: Pedestrian Walkways
9-4-7: Easements
9-4-8: Lots
9-4-9: Public Sites And Open Spaces
9-4-10: Commercial Or Industrial Modification
9-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall fully comply with the minimum design
standards set forth in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher
standards adopted by any highway district shall prevail over those set forth
herein. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018)
9-4-2: STREET AND ROAD DEDICATION:
   A.   Streets and roads may be dedicated to the public upon completion of
construction in accordance with this title and acceptance by the County.
   B.   All streets and roads not dedicated to the public shall be dedicated to
serve all lots within the subdivision and shall be deemed private.
   C.   The final plat shall clearly indicate which streets and roads are
public and which streets and roads are private. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd.
Ord. 2019- 145, 11-12-2019; Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022)
9-4-3: STREET AND ROAD LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Continuation And Extension: The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions unless otherwise approved by the Board and the highway district or
department having jurisdiction over such streets.
   B.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets, and reasonable
gradients.
   C.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to such arterial street, and that there be such other treatment as is
necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and to separate
through traffic from local traffic.
   D.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: A cul-de-sac is required on streets longer than one
hundred fifty feet (150') which dead end. Cul-de-sacs shall not be located more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the terminating end of the dead end
street and shall have an adequate area for turning a vehicle around, including,
but not limited to, an emergency vehicle or fire truck. An “adequate
turnaround” is defined as having a minimum radius of sixty feet (60') including
right-of-way. If site conditions are not appropriate for a cul-de-sac design,
the applicant may request as an alternative a “hammerhead” or a “Y” as defined
in the most current standards adopted by the County. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018;
amd. Ord. 2019-145, 11-12-2019; Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-
2024)
9-4-4: STREET AND ROAD SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Right-Of-Way Widths:
      1.   Street and road right-of-way width for all roads dedicated to the
public shall conform to the rules set out in the Local Highway Technical
Assistance Council's (LHTAC) Highway As Street Guidelines for Construction.
      2.   Street and road right-of-way width for all private streets and roads
shall conform to the standards of the most current International Fire Code, as
adopted by the County. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-145, 11-12-
2019; Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022)
9-4-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to title 8, chapter 2 of this Code. (Ord.
2018-139, 2-26-2018)
9-4-6: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Rights-of-way for pedestrian walkways may be required where necessary to obtain
convenient pedestrian circulation to schools, parks or shopping areas; the
right-of-way shall be at least ten feet (10') wide and shall extend entirely
through the block. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022)
9-4-7: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed easements shall be provided along front and rear lot lines for
utilities and also along side lot lines when necessary; total easement width
shall be not less than five feet (5') along any one lot and shall not be less
than ten feet (10') where lots adjoin. Unobstructed drainage way easements
shall be provided as required by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board.
(Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022)
9-4-8: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines should be within +/- five (5) degrees of
right angles to straight streets and should conform to the curve of curved
streets.
   B.   Width Related To Length: Narrow, deep lots shall be avoided. The depth
of any lot shall not exceed three (3) times the width of said lot.
   C.   Lot Frontage: All lots shall have at least seventy five feet (75') of
frontage along the right-of-way line on a private road or upon a publicly
dedicated street. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022;
Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023; Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-2024)
9-4-9: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public
use is located in whole or in part within a subdivision, a suitable area for
this purpose shall be dedicated and accepted by the County or appropriate
public entity.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots) shall be preserved, insofar as
possible, in the design of the subdivision.
   C.   Community Services Site: Any person who shall propose, build or create
a new subdivision may be required to provide a neighborhood refuse, disposal
site and consolidated mailbox station site that shall service homes within the
proposed development and for this purpose shall be dedicated to and accepted by
the County. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord.
2024-162, 11- 25-2024)
9-4-10: COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL MODIFICATION:
These subdivision design standards shall be modified in accordance with chapter
6 of this title in the case of subdivisions specifically for commercial or
industrial development, including shopping districts, wholesale areas, and
planned industrial districts. In all cases, however, adequate provision shall
be made for off street parking and loading areas as well as for traffic
circulation. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord.
2024-162, 11-25-2024)
CHAPTER 5
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Urban/Suburban Subdivision Required Infrastructure Improvements
9-5-2: Rural Subdivision Required Infrastructure Improvements
9-5-3: Recreational Subdivision Required Infrastructure Improvements
9-5-4: Optional Infrastructure Improvements
9-5-5: Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
9-5-1: URBAN/SUBURBAN SUBDIVISION REQUIRED INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS:
Every urban/suburban subdivider shall be required to install and/or provide for
improvements in accordance with the following conditions and specifications:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Idaho Code.
   B.   Streets And Alleys:
      1.   All public streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the Local Highway Technical Assistance
Council’s (LHTAC) Highway and Street Guidelines for Construction as adopted by
the County Road Department.
      2.   All private streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance
with the standards of the most current International Fire Code.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be required on neighborhood
access streets and minor streets and shall be constructed in accordance with
the standards and specifications adopted by the County Road Department.
   D.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Public utilities shall be located in
accordance with the rules of the County Road Department. New underground
utilities may be required.
   E.   Driveways: The proposed location of all driveways shall be identified
in accordance with the standards of the County Road Department .
   F.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be considered.
All proposed storm drainage design plans shall be shown on engineered plans
unless determined to be not applicable by the G.
      Water Supply System: A public water system, if available, must be
utilized for water service. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a
public water supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system
appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider. If there is no existing or
accessible public water supply system, the subdivider may be required to
install a water supply system for the common use of the lots within the
subdivision. Individual or shared wells may be permitted in accordance with the
requirements of the Panhandle Health District.
   H.   Sanitary Sewer System: A public sewer system, if available, must be
utilized for sewer service. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a
public sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers and other required
appurtenances thereto shall be provided by the subdivider. If there is no
existing or accessible public sewer system, a sewer system for the common use
of the lot owners may be required to be provided by the subdivider, or an
approved individual disposal system may be approved which shall comply with the
requirements of the Panhandle Health District.
   I.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the
requirements of the County Road Department.
   J.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on both
sides of the street. Where the average width of lots, as measured at the street
frontage line or at the building setback line, is over one hundred feet (100'),
sidewalks on one side may be required by the County. Pedestrian walkways, when
required by the County, shall have easements at least ten feet (10') in width
and include a paved walk at least five feet (5') in width, located generally
along the centerline of the easement, dedicated as a public pedestrian walkway.
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the County Road Department.
   K.   Community Services Site: At the County discretion, a County deeded lot
with a minimum size of eighty-five (85) feet in width and eighty-five (85) feet
in length may be required for location of a consolidated mailbox and a solid
waste disposal site. If so required, dumpster ownership and operations will be
by the County. (Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-2024)
9-5-2: RURAL SUBDIVISION REQUIRED INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS:
Every rural subdivider shall be required to install and/or provide for
improvements in accordance with the following conditions and specifications:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Idaho Code.
   B.   Streets And Alleys:
      1.   All public streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the Local Highway Technical Assistance
Council*s (LHTAC) Highway and Street Guidelines for Construction as adopted by
the County Road Department.
      2.   All private streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance
with the standards of the most current International Fire Code.
   C.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the
requirements of the County Road Department.
   D.   Lot Size: All lots within a Rural Subdivision shall have a minimum lot
size of five (5) acres.
   E.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be considered.
All proposed storm drainage design plans shall be shown on engineered plans
unless determined to be not applicable by the County engineer.
   F.   Water Supply System: A public water system, if available, must be
utilized for water service. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a
public water supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system
appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider. If there is no existing or
accessible public water supply system, individual or shared wells may be
permitted in accordance with the requirements of the Panhandle Health District.
Individual wells do not need to be installed prior to final plat.
   G.   Sanitary Sewer System: A public water system, if available, must be
utilized for sewer service. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by
public sanitary sewer system, all sewer system appurtenances shall be installed
by the subdivider. If there is no existing or accessible public sewer supply
system, individual septic tanks and drain fields may be permitted in accordance
with the requirements of the Panhandle Health District. Septic tanks and drain
fields do not need to be installed prior to final plat.
   H.   Community Services Site: At the County discretion, a county deeded lot
with a minimum size of eighty-five (85) feet in width and eighty-five (85) feet
in length may be required for location of a consolidated mailbox and a solid
waste disposal site. If so required, dumpster ownership and operations will be
by the County. (Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023; amd Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-2024)
9-5-3: RECREATIONAL SUBDIVISION REQUIRED INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS:
Every recreational subdivider shall be required to install and/or provide for
improvements in accordance with the following conditions and specifications:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Idaho Code.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications of the Local Highway Technical
Assistance Council’s (LHTAC) Highway and Street Guidelines for Construction.
All private streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards of the most current International Fire Code.
   C.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the
requirements of the County Road Department.
   D.   Water Supply System: A public water system, if available, must be
utilized for water service. When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a
public water supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system
appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider. A minimum of one (1) well
(or water service), suitable for domestic potable water of sufficient quantity
to serve all lots within the subdivision for water for recreational use
purposes, shall be installed prior to final plat. Use of the well (or water
service) and maintenance thereof shall be dedicated to and required of all lot
owners in the subdivision. Any wells must be permitted in accordance with the
requirements of the Panhandle Health District.
   E.   Sanitary Sewer System: A public sewer system, if available, must be
utilized for sewer service. A minimum of one (1) sewer dump station, suitable
for provision of sanitary waste disposal for all lots in the subdivision, shall
be installed prior to final plat. Use of the sewer dump station and maintenance
thereof shall be dedicated to and required of all lot owners in the
subdivision. The sewer dump station must be installed accordance with the
requirements of the Panhandle Health District.
   F.   Community Path for Access: One (1) path per ten (10) lots shall be
reserved and dedicated for access by all subdivision lot owners and guests to
rivers, lakes, water features, trails, recreation sites, etc. The minimum path
width shall be of fifty (50) feet.
   G.   Community Solid Waste Site: A minimum size of eighty-five (85) feet in
width and eighty-five (85) feet in length shall be reserved for location of a
solid waste disposal site. Use of the dumpster site and maintenance thereof
shall be dedicated to, and required of all lot owners in the subdivision.
   H.   Structures/Habitability: The plat shall contain a statement that the
subdivision is intended solely for recreational purposes, and shall contain a
plat restrictions limiting building of structures to: (1) non-residential
construction; (2) no more than one (1) unenclosed structure, such as an open-
air picnic or RV cover; (3) no enclosed structures greater than two hundred
(200) square feet; and (4) no more than one (1) enclosed structure, such as a
gardening/storage structure, two hundred (200) square feet or less, per lot.
(Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-2024)
9-5-4: OPTIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS:
Optional public improvements shall be governed by the following:
   A.   Recreational: Where a school site, neighborhood park, recreation area,
or public access to water frontage, as previously delineated or specified by
official action of the Planning and Zoning Commission, is located in whole or
in part in the proposed subdivision, the Board may request the reservation of
such open spaces for school, park and recreation or public access purposes. All
such areas shall either be reserved for the respective school district in the
case of school sites or for the County in all other cases; however, voluntary
dedication of these land areas may be accepted.
   B.   Greenbelts: Greenbelts may be required for the protection of
residential properties. Where a subdivider desires to protect his development
in this respect, a proposed subdivision plat shall show the location of said
greenbelts.
   C.   Street Lighting: Streetlights may be required to be installed at
intersections only throughout the subdivision. In these cases, a subdivider
shall conform to the requirements of the County and the public utility
providing such lighting. (Ord. 2023-158, 10-23-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-
2024)
9-5-5: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements, Exceptions: In lieu of the actual
installation of required improvements prior to final plat approval, the Board,
may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in
one or a combination of the following arrangements for those requirements.
      Required improvements must be completed and accepted prior to the sale of
any subdivision lot. Provided however, if improvements are completed in phases,
the County at its sole discretion, may lift sale restrictions on lots with
completed improvements upon a finding that it is in the nest interest of the
public to do so.
   B.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the County covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to the total estimated
cost for completing construction of the specific public improvement, including
contingencies, as estimated by the Board.
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the Board for the specific public improvement.
      4.   Bonding Or Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the State of Idaho, acceptable to the Board.
      5.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the Board.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the Board, shall accrue to the County. These deposits shall be
made with the County Treasurer, or deposited with a reasonable escrow agent, or
trust company, subject to the approval of the Board.
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be equal to the
total estimated cost of construction of the specific public improvement
including contingencies, as estimated by a qualified engineering firm,
      3.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be for a period to
be specified by the Board.
      4.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the County and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   D.   Condition Of County Approval Of Final Plat Financial Guarantees: With
respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats
shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the Board.
      2.   Surety acceptable to the County shall have been filed in the form of
a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or surety bond.
   E.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the Board shall be made to provide for
checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted
plans.
   F.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete Improvements: In the event the
subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work within the period of
time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for the completion of
public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the Board to proceed to
have such work completed.
      In order to accomplish this, the Board shall reimburse itself for the
cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check,
irrevocable bank letter of credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may
have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps as may be
necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company, and as
included in a written agreement between the Board and the subdivider. (Ord.
2023-158, 10-23-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-162, 11- 25-2024)
CHAPTER 6
VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Recommendations By Planning And Zoning Commission
9-6-2: Topographical-Physical Limitation Variance
9-6-3: Planned Unit Development Variance (Rep. by Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-2024)
9-6-1: RECOMMENDATIONS BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to the Board a variance from
the provisions of this title on a finding that undue hardship may result from
strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of this title or
that application of such provision or requirement is impracticable. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall only recommend variances that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, as
required the Planning and Zoning Commission shall take into account the nature
of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the
number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the
probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the
vicinity. No variance shall be recommended unless the Planning and Zoning
Commission finds, after a public hearing:
   A.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable, or unreasonable. In such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provision or requirement
involved and submit them to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated.
   C.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code.
   D.   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this title and the Comprehensive Plan of the County. (Ord. 2018-
139, 2-26-2018)
9-6-2: TOPOGRAPHICAL-PHYSICAL LIMITATION VARIANCE:
Where, in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions, or other such conditions which are not self- inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this title, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to
the Board that variance modification or a waiver of these requirements be
granted. (Ord. 2018-139, 2-26-2018)
9-6-3: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT VARIANCE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-162, 11-25-2024)
CHAPTER 7
PARCEL DIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Applicability
9-7-3: Definitions
9-7-4: Property Status
9-7-5: Requirements
9-7-6: Notice To Title
9-7-7: Duty Of Property Owner(s)
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to provide the criteria for the division of a lot
or tract or parcel of land when subdivision approval is not required by the
Benewah County Subdivision regulations. (Ord. 2019-146, 11-12-2019)
9-7-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations apply to the further division of existing and future parcels
located within the unincorporated area of Benewah County. If the requirements
set forth herein are not met, the division will be deemed a prohibited division
and will render the resulting parcels non-buildable. (Ord. 2019-146, 11-12-
2019)
9-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
To the extent applicable, the definitions found in the Benewah County
Subdivision Regulations, Chapter 9, Title 1, Section 6 apply to this title.
(Ord. 2019-146, 11-12-2019)
9-7-4: PROPERTY STATUS:
Prior to any property division, the owner shall request the County review the
status of the parcel or parcels of property to determine if a division of a lot
or tract or parcel of land (subject parcel) will require subdivision approval
consistent with the Benewah County Subdivision regulations or if a division can
be accomplished under this title. In aid of the property status review, the
owner shall provide a research package compiled by an attorney, a professional
land surveyor or a title company including the following:
   1.   The most recent deed and current parcel number for the subject parcel;
   2.   A chain of title for the subject parcel tracing it back the subject
property’s parent parcel (a parent parcel is the complete contiguous parcel
within a single section as defined by its legal description existing as of
August 14, 1972, see section 9-6-1); and
   3.   A chain of title for all splits (divisions) from the parent parcel made
after August 14, 1972 to present day. (Ord. 2019-146, 11-12-2019; amd. Ord.
2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord. 2025-163, 1-13-2025)
9-7-5: REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements apply to the division of a lot or tract or parcel of
land when subdivision approval is not required by the Benewah County
Subdivision regulations.
   A.   All parcels must have a minimum lot size of one (1) acre.
   B.   All parcels must have at least one (1) building site, sufficient to
meet the panhandle health district setbacks for domestic potable water and
sanitary sewer for service for one (1) single family dwelling.
   C.   For parcels which are adjacent to a publicly owed or maintained road,
each new parcel shall have at least seventy-five feet (75') of frontage along
the right-of-way line of any public road, sufficient for a driveway to be
installed in accordance with the County Road Standards.
   D.   Deeds for both the new parcel(s) and the remaining parcel must be
prepared and must include valid legal descriptions.
      1.   Legal descriptions must close, be surveyable, and be mappable,
sufficient to allow the Assessor to comply with the provisions in Idaho Code
Title 63 Chapter 2 and rules promulgated by the state tax commission to prepare
full, accurate and complete plat maps of all parcels of real property within
the county.
      2.   It is strongly encouraged that all affected parcels be surveyed by a
licensed surveyor. If the legal description does not close, is not surveyable
and mappable to the satisfaction of the County, a survey will be required.
      3.   Each deed must contain all the required information for a real
estate transaction and each deed must be properly acknowledged before a notary
public.
   E.   Each final parcel (new parcel(s) and the remaining parcel) must have
legal practical access to a private or public road across the other parcel(s)
involved in the transition as follows:
      1.   Access must be conveyed by express easement contained in the deed or
by separate written easement document recorded at the time of division and
included in or with the first deed of transfer.
      2.   Access shall be either:
         a.   Over an existing developed road sufficient to meet the standards
of the International Fire Code, 2015 Edition, or the most current version of
the Fire Code as adopted by the County;
         b.   Over an existing road which is in a location and of such grade
and width that it could be developed in the future sufficient to meet the
standards of the International Fire Code, 2015 Edition, or the most current
version of the Fire Code as adopted by the County; or
         c.   In a described location where such road could be practicably
built in the future sufficient to meet the standards of the International Fire
Code, 2015 Edition, or the most current version of the Fire Code as adopted by
the County.
Exemption: An exemption to some or all of Requirements A-C in this subsection
9-7-5 may be granted by the planning administrator if the proposed new parcel
has a specified purpose for which it is being created which makes the
application of the requirement(s) not applicable. This exception shall be
construed narrowly and only available in particular, limited circumstances,
such as for creation of utility or road parcels. (Ord. 2019-146, 11-12-2019;
amd. Ord. 2022-152, 9-12-2022; Ord. 2025-163, 1-13- 2025)
9-7-6: NOTICE TO TITLE:
If a deed is recorded which does not comply with the regulations set forth
herein, a notice of prohibited division may be filed with the County Recorder's
office as notice to title against the effected parcel(s). (Ord. 2019-146, 11-
12-2019; amd Ord. 2025-163, 1-13-2025)
9-7-7: DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER(S):
   A.   Notwithstanding the authority of the County to record a notice to title
as set forth in Section 9-7-6 herein, it is the duty of the property owner(s)
to ensure compliance with these regulations not the County.
   B.   Prior to any property division made pursuant to this chapter, the owner
shall certify under penalty of perjury, that the requirements of this chapter
have been met. Such certification shall be filed prior to or in conjunction
with the recording of the deeds required under section 9-7-5E. The
certifications shall include the legal description for the new parcel(s) and
the remaining parcel.
   C.   All buyers, transferees, lenders and other such persons acquiring an
interest in real property in Benewah County shall undertake their own due
diligence to ensure compliance. No reliance shall be made on the County
ensuring compliance with these regulations. (Ord. 2019-146, 11-12-2019; amd.
Ord. 2025-163, 1-13-2025)
CHAPTER 8
PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENT REGULATION
SECTION:
9-8-1: Parcel Line Adjustment Regulations
9-8-1: PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title is to provide the criteria for the
adjustments to parcel lines in order to rectify defects in legal descriptions,
to correct situations wherein an established use is located across a parcel
line. or for other similar purposes.
   B.   Applicability: These regulations apply to existing and future parcels
located within the unincorporated area of Benewah County. If the requirements
set forth herein are not met, the county will issue a Notice of Title and will
be deemed an illegal division.
   C.   Property Status Report Request: Prior to any parcel line adjustment,
the owner shall request the County review the status of the parcel or parcels
of property to determine if a parcel line adjustment can be accomplished under
this title.
   D.   Requirements: The following requirements apply to the adjustment of
lines between two or more existing lots or tracts or parcels of land:
      1.   A legible copy of a parcel map or record of survey must be provided
showing all affected parcels on which the existing and new parcel lines are
clearly labeled.
      2.   Deeds for both resulting parcels and the portion to be transferred
must be prepared and must include valid legal descriptions.
         a.   Legal descriptions must close, be surveyable. and be mappable,
sufficient to allow the Assessor comply with the provisions in Idaho Code Title
63 Chapter 2 and rules promulgated by the state tax commission to prepare full,
accurate and complete plat records of all parcels of real property within the
county.
         b.   It is strongly encouraged that all affected parcels be surveyed
by a licensed surveyor. If the legal description does not close, is not
surveyable, and or mappable to the satisfaction of the County, a survey may be
required.
         c.   Each deed must contain all the required information for a real
estate transaction and each deed must be properly acknowledged before a notary
public.
         d.   Each deed must state the following: This conveyance is made as
part of an exchange of property between the Grantor and the Grantee hereunder,
to effectuate parcel adjustments between their respective contiguous
ownerships. As such, the parcel being conveyed hereunder shall be consolidated
with and become part of the Grantee's existing ownership for all purposes. No
new parcel shall be deemed created by such adjustment.
         e.   A parcel line adjustment cannot create a non-conforming parcel.
         f.   A parcel line adjustment does not change existing easement
rights, existing roads, right-of-ways, easements or publicly dedicated areas in
any manner.
         g.   A parcel line adjustment shall not increase or decrease the
number of parcels.
         h.   A parcel line adjustment of lots within a platted subdivision
created and recorded after August 14, 1972 cannot be approved without
additional review to assure that the subdivision design standards required by
the Benewah County Subdivision Ordinance are met and the final plat approved by
the Board of County Commissioners is not compromised.
         i.   All property taxes shall be paid in full on any property affected
by the adjustment prior to recording of the parcel line adjustment deeds.
         j.   It is the responsibility of property owner or owners to assure
the changes are approved by any lien holder and that the lien holder is
provided with the new legal descriptions.
         k.   If the parcel line adjustment will result in part of a parcel in
a taxing district and part located out of a taxing district (fire, or school
district, water and sewer district parcel or any other type of service
provider), then the entire parcel has to be annexed into or de-annexed from the
taxing district before parcel line adjustment can be approved. (Ord. 2022-152,
9-12-2022)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: General Provisions
10-1-4: Administration
10-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The legislature of the state of Idaho, pursuant to
Idaho Code sections 46-1020 through 46-1024, authorizes local governments to
adopt floodplain management ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum
floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human
life, health, and property. Therefore, the board of county commissioners of
Benewah County, Idaho, does hereby ordain as follows.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of Benewah County are subject to periodic
inundation that results in:
         a.   Loss of life and property;
         b.   Health and safety hazards;
         c.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
         d.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and
protection; and
         e.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life, health, and property;
      2.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      7.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
      8.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   D.   Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish
its purpose, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
      3.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters. (Ord. 2017-137,
2-9-2017)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal
structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure.
ADDITION (To An Existing Building): An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO zone on a community's flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to
an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow
may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the federal insurance
administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or
other source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
critical to the health and safety of the public before, during, and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment
plant.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit; such as: the construction of
buildings, structures, or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers, and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of
materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building which has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The official form (FEMA form 81-31) used to provide
elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community floodplain
management regulations and determine the proper flood insurance premium rate.
ENCLOSURE: An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed
when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/FPE is not considered an enclosure.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings,
structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the
flow capacity of a floodplain.
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: See definition of Base Flood Elevation (BFE).
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: See definition of Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal insurance administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
   A.   In "special flood hazard areas" where base flood elevations (BFEs) have
been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus one foot (1') of
freeboard; and
   B.   In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD ZONE: A geographical area shown on a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that
reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control ordinance), and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be one foot (1').
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. department of interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior,
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding
including a fourteen foot (14') unimpeded running surface maintained along the
top of the levee and a distance of thirty five feet (35') from the levee
centerline to the tow of the levee on which no structure can be built without
compromising the levee system.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure. Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for LAG related to building
elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this
chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): The NFIP is a federal program created
by congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound, community
enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to affordable,
federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which a
building permit is required.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis, and
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, and
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of Floodway.
REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE: An NFIP insured structure that has had at least two
(2) paid flood losses of more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any
ten (10) year period since 1978.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of Substantial Improvement. Substantial damage also means flood
related damage sustained by a structure on two (2) separate occasions during a
ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such
flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
A.Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure" and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this
chapter.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this
chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the finished construction elevation certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR
section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur. (Ord. 2017-137, 2-9-2017)
10-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of Benewah County.
   B.   Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the federal emergency management agency in its flood insurance
study (FIS) for Benewah County and incorporated areas, dated September 25,
2009, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) and other supporting
data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection B
of this section.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter shall not in any way
repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the necessity of compliance with any other
laws, ordinances, regulations, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, et
cetera. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Benewah County or by any
officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   H.   Penalties For Violation: No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, extended, converted, or altered unless in full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor subject to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
Benewah County from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation. (Ord. 2017-137, 2-9-2017)
10-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Floodplain Administrator: The chair of the Benewah
County commissioners, or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as the
"floodplain administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: The
floodplain administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      1.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local permits have been received.
      3.   Prevent encroachments into floodway areas unless the certification
and flood hazard reduction provisions of subsection
10-1-5E of this chapter are met.
      4.   Require proof of actual elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and substantially improved
structures, in accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section.
      5.   Require proof of actual elevation to which all new and substantially
improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in accordance with
the provisions of subsection C3 of this section.
      6.   Require proof of actual elevation of all public utilities in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section.
      7.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, require
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section and subsection
10-1-5B2 of this chapter.
      8.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas or floodways (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this section.
      9.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-1-3B of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data,
along with floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source,
including data developed pursuant to section
10-1-5 of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      10.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-1-3B of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway
data available from a federal, state, or other source in order to administer
the provisions of this chapter.
      11.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the privacy act of 1974, as
amended.
      12.   Make on site inspections of work in progress as needed. In
exercising this power, the floodplain administrator has a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action.
      13.   Issue stop work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed.
      14.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The floodplain
administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation.
      15.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community as resources allow.
      16.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited
to, the FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-1-3B of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA.
   C.   Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the floodplain administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The applicant shall
complete the application form provided by the floodplain administrator and
shall provide any supplemental information requested by the floodplain
administrator.
      2.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         a.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, et cetera).
         b.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in subsection
10-1-3B of this chapter.
         c.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all utilities.
         d.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
         e.   All certification submittal requirements with time lines.
         f.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
         g.   The flood openings requirements, if in zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-
30.
         h.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the "start of
construction" definition.
         i.   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only).
         j.   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood
resistant materials.
      3.   Certification Requirements:
         a.   Elevation Certificates:
            (1)   An elevation certificate (FEMA form 86-0-33) is required
prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea level. The floodplain
administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
            (2)   A final as built finished construction elevation certificate
(FEMA form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of
final as built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
The finished construction elevation certificate certifier shall provide at
least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification.
         b.   Floodproofing Certificate: If nonresidential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate
data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior
to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         c.   Manufactured Homes: If a manufactured home is placed within zone
A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty
six inches (36") in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification
is required in accordance with the provisions of subsection 10-1-5B3b of this
chapter.
         d.   Alteration Or Relocation: If a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated, the following shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit:
            (1)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
            (2)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (3)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
            (4)   An Idaho stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the floodplain administrator.
         e.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in subsections C3a and C3b
of this section:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
10-1-5B4 of this chapter;
            (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection
10-1-5B5 of this chapter; and
            (3)   Accessory structures less than six hundred (600) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
10-1-5B6 of this chapter.
      4.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the floodplain administrator, in coordination with
the building official, shall:
         a.   Determine the assessed value of the building or structure before
the start of construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the
assessed value of the building or structure shall be the assessed value before
the damage occurred and before any repairs are made;
         b.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its predamaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the assessed value of the building
or structure;
         c.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         d.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted
Idaho building code and this chapter is required.
   D.   Corrective Procedures:
      1.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the floodplain administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations cited in such
notification.
      2.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
floodplain administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating that the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations.
      3.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, pursuant to the notice
prescribed above, the floodplain administrator shall find that the building or
development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue an order in
writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a
specified time period.
      4.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action, the owner shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
   E.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   Appeal Board: The board of county commissioners as established by
Idaho state code hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Issuance: Variances may be issued for:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         b.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
      3.   Considerations: In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   Written Report: The applicant shall include a written report
addressing each of the above factors in subsections E3a through E3k of this
section with their application for a variance.
      5.   Purpose Of Board: Upon consideration of the factors listed above and
the purposes of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
      6.   Written Notice: Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be
given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation
(BFE) and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such
construction below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the
issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
      7.   Maintenance Of Records: The floodplain administrator shall maintain
the records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the federal
emergency management agency and the state of Idaho upon request.
      8.   Conditions For Variances:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway area
if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         d.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         e.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      9.   Issuance Of Variance: A variance may be issued for solid waste
disposal facilities or sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage
yards, and chemical storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard
areas provided that all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         b.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
         c.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
      10.   Notification Of State: The floodplain administrator will notify the
state NFIP coordinator of the Idaho department of water resources of its
intention to grant a variance at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to
granting the variance.
      11.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board
may appeal such decision to the court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord.
2017-137, 2-9-2017)
10-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
         a.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
         b.   Include, flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To
meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by a professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (3)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            (4)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            (5)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            (6)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      10.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date hereof
and located totally or partially within the floodway provided there is no
additional encroachment below the flood protection elevation in the floodway.
      11.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection 10-1-4E9 of this
chapter.
      12.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      13.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      14.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      15.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the
federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
      16.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      17.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in subsection 10-1-3B of
this chapter the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
subsection A of this section, are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the flood
protection elevation, as defined in section
10-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the
flood protection elevation, as defined in section
10-1-2 of this chapter. Structures may be floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the flood
protection elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water, using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. The
floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with subsection F2 of this
section. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in subsection
10-1-4C3 of this chapter, along with the operational plan and the inspection
and maintenance plan.
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in section
10-1-2 of this chapter.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection A8b(6) of this section.
      4.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         a.   Temporary Placement:
            (1)   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions).
            (2)   Recreational vehicles are not allowed to be on site in
special flood hazard areas between the dates of November 30 and May 1.
         b.   Permanent Placement:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in subsection A of this section.
      5.   Temporary Nonresidential Structures: Temporary nonresidential
structures are not allowed to be on site in special flood hazard areas between
the dates of November 30 and May 1. (Ord. 2017-137, 2-9-2017)
      6.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area the
following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation;
         b.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of subsection A1 of this section;
         e.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection A4 of this section; and
         f.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsection A8b of this section.
An accessory structure that satisfies the criteria outlined in subsections B6a
through B6f of this section is not required to meet the elevation or
floodproofing standards of subsection B2 of this section. (Ord. 2018-141, 5-29-
2018)
      7.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement, including the effects of
buoyancy;
         b.   Elevated aboveground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         c.   Not elevated aboveground tanks, which do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B2 of this section shall be permitted in flood
hazard areas provided the tanks are anchored and constructed to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, including the effects of buoyancy
assuming the tank is empty;
         d.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement, including the effects
of buoyancy.
      8.   Construction Of Below Grade Crawl Space:
         a.   The interior grade of a crawl space must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
         b.   The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation
wall, must not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         c.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         d.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet (5') per second for any crawl space.
Caution: Buildings that have below grade crawl spaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawl space
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawl space soil at or above
the base flood elevation (BFE).
      9.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways:
         a.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this section.
         b.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of
subsection E of this section.
         c.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways, shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this
section.
   C.   Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A and established in
subsection 10-1-3B of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data
has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the
provisions of subsection A of this section, shall apply:
The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
      1.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in subsections A and B of
this section.
      2.   When floodway data is available from a Federal, State, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of subsections B and E of this section.
      3.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with subsection 10-1-3B of this chapter and utilized in implementing
this chapter.
      4.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
Federal, State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to two feet (2.0') above the "highest
adjacent grade (HAG)" at the building site or to the "flood protection
elevation (FPE)" whichever is higher, as defined in section
10-1-2 of this chapter. All other applicable provisions of subsection B of this
section shall also apply.
   D.   Reserved.
   E.   Standards For Floodways: Areas designated as floodways are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in subsection
10-1-3B of this chapter. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and
potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in subsections A and B of this section, shall apply to all development
within such areas:
      1.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         a.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit.
      2.   If subsection E1 of this section is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding: Located within the special
flood hazard areas established in subsection
10-1-3B of this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot
(1') to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to
subsections A and B of this section, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one foot (1'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two
feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      2.   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in subsection F1 of this section so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with subsection
10-1-4C3 of this chapter, and subsection B2 of this section.
      3.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord.
2017-137, 2-9-2017)
TITLE 11
LAND USE
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION OF LAND USE APPLICATION PERMITS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority And Purpose
11-1-2: Duties And Authorities
11-1-3: General Application Process
11-1-4: Public Hearing Process
11-1-5: Expiration Of Approvals
11-1-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by title 67,
chapter 65 Idaho Code, local land use planning act.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the
processing of applications for subdivisions, variances, special use permits and
other such land use planning applications required or authorized pursuant to
Idaho Code, this code or otherwise requested by the commissioners. (Ord. 2013-
132, 3-25-2013)
11-1-2: DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The commission shall be the designated
planning body for the county pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6504 and title 2,
chapter 1 of this code. The commission shall be responsible for making
recommendations to the commissioners on land use planning matters contained in
this title and other matters as requested by the commissioners.
   B.   Planning And Zoning Administrator: The administrator shall be the
individual or individuals designated by the county to issue permits, collect
fees and process applications under this title.
   C.   Summary Of Actions: The following table is a summary list of the
actions that the county shall take in administration of this title, the body
responsible for the action, and the reference to the process under which the
action shall be taken unless otherwise required by Idaho Code:
   TABLE
11-1-2
   AUTHORITIES AND PROCESSES
 
CC = County commissioners               AN = Administrator with notice
PZ = Planning and zoning commission     PM = Public meeting
PZA = Planning and zoning administrator PH = Public hearing
 
Application/Permit Recommending Authority/Process Final Decision Making Body/
                                                  Process
Application/Permit          Recommending Authority/ Final Decision Making Body/
                            Process                 Process
Comprehensive plan          PZ/PH                   CC/PM
amendment
Special use permit or       PZ/PH                   CC/PM
permit revocation
Subdivision - preliminary   PZ/PH                   CC/PM
plat
Subdivisions - final plat   PZ/PM                   CC/PM
Vacation of any part of     PZ/PH                   CC/PH1
plat
Vacation of county road/ROW                        CC/PH
Validation of county road/                         CC/PH
ROW
Variance                    PZ/PH                   CC/PM
Other land use application  PZ/PH                   CC/PM
 
Note:
   1.    Except if within mile of city limits see Idaho Code 50-1306A.
(Ord. 2013-132, 3-25-2013)
11-1-3: GENERAL APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose And Application: The purpose of this section is to outline the
general application process for a permit or decision under provisions of this
chapter unless otherwise required by Idaho Code or the Benewah County
subdivision ordinance.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   Submittal: Requests for permits and decisions shall be submitted on
approved forms to the administrator.
      2.   Required Information: At a minimum, the application shall require
the following information:
         a.   Name, address and contact information of the applicant and the
applicant's representative;
         b.   Proof of current ownership in the property which is subject of
the application or signed letter of authorization from the property owner for
making application;
         c.   Legal description of the property; and
         d.   Statement of project intent for making the application.
      3.   Additional Information: Requests for permits and decisions may
require additional application information as determined by the administrator.
      4.   Electronic Submittal: The administrator may allow some information
to be submitted in an electronic format.
      5.   Application Fee: An application fee shall be paid at the time of the
submission of the application for approval, in accordance with any fee schedule
adopted by resolution by the board of county commissioners.
      6.   Professional Fees: In addition to the payment of application fees,
the applicant shall be required to reimburse the county for all professional
engineering fees or legal fees incurred by the county. A schedule of fees shall
be established by the board of county commissioners and filed in the county
clerk's office and may be amended from time to time upon resolution duly
enacted by the board.
      7.   Termination Of Process: If the applicant fails to pay the county
fees on a timely basis, the county may suspend or if deemed appropriate,
terminate the processing of the application. The applicant may be required to
sign a reimbursement agreement.
      8.   Determination Of Completeness:
         a.   An application shall contain all information deemed necessary by
the administrator to determine if the proposal will comply with the applicable
requirements of this chapter.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of an application, or such
later time, but not to exceed sixty (60) days, the administrator shall certify
the application as complete for review or require additional information be
submitted.
         c.   After the application is certified as complete, the
commissioners, commission, or administrator may require applicants to submit
additional information and materials.
         d.   No further action shall be taken on the application until such
additional information and materials have been submitted. If the additional
information is not submitted within thirty (30) days from the administrator's
request, or the date mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the
administrator, the application will be returned to the applicant.
         e.   The administrator shall issue a notice of application acceptance
and completion by letter to the applicant. The applicant will be informed
regarding a public notice of a pending public hearing or other action being
taken on the application.
         f.   The administrator shall begin processing the application once the
application is deemed complete.
         g.   If at any time during the processing of the application, the
administrator, the planning and zoning commission or the county commissioners
request additional information, documents or prepayment of costs from the
applicant and the requested materials are not submitted within sixty (60) days
from the request, or the date mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the
county, the county may suspend or if deemed appropriate, terminate the
processing of the application. (Ord. 2013-132, 3-25-2013)
11-1-4: PUBLIC HEARING PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to outline the specific
application process for actions that require a public hearing unless otherwise
required by Idaho Code.
   B.   Public Notice Requirements: Applications that require a public hearing
shall be noticed in accord with the noticing requirements, as set forth in
table
11-1-4 of this section, and the following relevant procedures:
      1.   Radius Notice: For applications that require radius notice:
         a.   Submittal Of Addresses: At least twenty (20) days prior to the
public hearing, the applicant shall submit a current list, compiled by a title
company, of the addresses of all property owners required to be notified of the
public hearing.
         b.   Mailing Of Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing, the county shall send the public notice of the time, place and
description of the application by first class mail to the property owners
required to be notified of the public hearing.
         c.   Public Road Or Right Of Way Validation Or Vacation: In the case
of public road or right of way validation or vacation requests, the radius
notice shall be sent at least thirty (30) days prior to the public hearing.
         d.   Plat Vacation: In the case of plat vacation requests, radius
notice shall be sent by first class mail or certified mail with return receipt
at least ten (10) days prior to the date of public hearing to all property
owners within three hundred (300) feet of the boundaries of the area described
in the petition.
         e.   Alternate Mailing Notice: When mailed notice is required to two
hundred (200) or more property owners, alternate notice may be provided by a
display advertisement at least four inches (4") by two (2) columns in size in
the official newspaper at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date.
      2.   Publication: For applications that require publication, the
administrator shall provide a public notice of the time, place, and description
of the application in the official newspaper of general circulation at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing except as provided below.
         a.   In the case of plat vacation requests, legal notice shall be
published once a week for two (2) successive weeks, the last of which shall not
be less than seven (7) days prior to the public hearing.
         b.   In the case of public road or right of way validation or vacation
requests, the legal notice shall be published at least two (2) times, the last
notice shall be published at least five (5) days and not more than twenty one
(21) days before the hearing.
         c.   In the case of comprehensive plan amendments, if the commission
recommends a material change to the plan after the public hearing, the public
notice for the commissioners' hearing shall include the commission's
recommendation.
      3.   Posting On Site: For applications that require posting on site, a
public notice on a form provided shall be posted by the county on all external
boundaries of the site for which the permit is sought. The notice shall be
posted not less than seven (7) days prior to the public hearing.
      4.   Agency Notification: For applications that require agency notice, at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the county shall give
notice to all political subdivisions providing services, including the school
district. The administrator may transmit the notice, application and other
documents submitted for review and recommendations to departments and other
agencies and community organizations as adopted by the commission resolution.
   TABLE
11-1-4
   PUBLIC NOTICING REQUIREMENTS
Application/ Radius - Adjacent Radius -
Permit       Properties        Properties Within Publication On Site Agencies
                               300'
Application/     Radius -   Radius -
Permit           Adjacent   Properties Within Publication On Site Agencies
                 Properties 300'
Comprehensive                                 X                   X
plan amendment
Special use
permit or permit            X                 X           X
revocation
Subdivision -               X                 X           X       X
preliminary plat
Vacation of any             X                 X           X
part of plat
Vacation of      X                            X
county road/ROW
Validation of    X                            X
county road/ROW
Variance         X                            X           X
Other land use                                X           X
application
 
   C.   Planning And Zoning Commission Public Hearing:
      1.   Hearing Date: Within sixty (60) days of receipt of an application
certified as complete, or as reasonably appropriate and consistent with staff
or consultant workloads, the commission public hearing shall be conducted.
Notwithstanding such certification, the commission may extend the time provided
for review and action by making a finding that additional materials and/or
information are required due to the complexity of the application or for other
reasons deemed appropriate.
      2.   Public Hearing:
         a.   The commission shall hear all persons interested in an
application at the duly noticed public hearing.
         b.   Written statements, mailed or hand delivered to the county during
or in advance of the public hearing, shall be entered into the record of the
hearing.
         c.   The applicant shall offer competent evidence in support of the
application sufficient to enable the commission to consider the matter and to
make findings on the subject.
         d.   The applicant has the burden of providing all necessary and
relevant information and evidence in support of the application.
      3.   Commission Action:
         a.   After hearing the evidence and considering the application, the
commission shall make its decision or recommendation.
         b.   The commission shall report the facts upon which it based its
conclusion, the ordinances and standards used in evaluating the application,
the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain approval, and make
a decision or recommendation of approval or disapproval.
         c.   The commission shall make its findings and decision or
recommendations within thirty five (35) days from the date of the public
hearing, unless the commission determines that additional time is required to
properly evaluate the application.
      4.   Commission Transmittal: Upon the recommendations of approval or
disapproval by the commission, the application, together with a complete copy
of the commission's findings and decision or recommendations, shall be
transmitted to the commissioners.
   D.   Board Of County Commissioners' Action:
      1.   Public Hearing: Within thirty five (35) days of the receipt of the
commission's recommendations, the county shall decide whether or not they wish
to hold a public hearing.
         a.   A public hearing by the commissioners is required for
comprehensive plans. In all other cases, the decision to hold a public hearing
is at the discretion of commissioners.
         b.   The public notice shall be made in the same manner in which the
hearing was noticed before the commission, unless otherwise required by the
local land use planning act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq.
         c.   At the hearing before the commissioners, the commissioners shall
consider the record and report of the commission and shall hear all persons
interested in the application.
         d.   Written statements, mailed or hand delivered to the county and
received during or in advance of the public hearing, shall be entered into the
record of the hearing.
         e.   The applicant shall offer competent evidence in support of the
application sufficient to enable the commissioners to consider the matter and
to make findings on the subject.
         f.   The applicant has the burden of presenting all necessary and
relevant information and evidence in support of the application.
      2.   Commissioners' Decision: Upon conclusion of its review, the
commissioners shall take action on the application and adopt its findings of
fact and conclusions by the next regularly scheduled meeting unless the
commissioners determine that additional time is required to properly evaluate
the application.
         a.   In its decision, the commissioners shall base its findings upon
record and report of the commission and, if taken, testimony presented before
it.
         b.   The commissioners may adopt, modify with conditions, or reject
the recommendations of the commission or remand the application to the
commission for additional proceedings and findings.
         c.   The commissioners' finding of facts and conclusion shall specify
the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application, the reasons for
approval or denial, and the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain approval.
(Ord. 2013-132, 3-25-2013; amd Ord. 2024-159, 5-28-2024)
11-1-5: EXPIRATION OF APPROVALS:
   A.   Expiration: All application approvals shall expire three hundred sixty
five (365) days from the date of approval unless otherwise provided in this
code or, if by condition of approval or development agreement, a time period
for completion of the application has been specified.
   B.   Extension: An extension may be granted by the administrator upon
finding that the application and/or applicable county regulations have not
changed. Such extension must be applied for within sixty (60) days of the
expiration date for the original approval; only one extension of not more than
three hundred sixty five (365) days shall be granted by the administrator. Any
additional extension request shall be at the discretion of the commissioners
upon recommendation of the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2013-132, 3-
25-2013)
APPENDIX
SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord.  Date Subject
No.
           An ordinance granting to John F. Darden and Edmund Porrett, doing business
      10-  as J & E Solid Waste, of St. Maries, county of Benewah, state of Idaho, an
7     14-  exclusive franchise to operate for hire a solid waste collection service
      1975 within rural areas of Benewah County, state of Idaho, and providing for
           regulation of such activity.
      2-
10    28-  An ordinance vacating streets and alleys on Fernwood School site.
      1977
           An ordinance of Benewah County, state of Idaho, creating local improvement
           district no. 1; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said
           district; providing for certain improvements to be made therein; providing
      4-   for the payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed
22    27-  against the property within said district benefited thereby; stating the
      1981 method of assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement
           district warrants and bonds; appointing an engineer to prepare the necessary
           plans and specifications for the project; authorizing the advertising for
           bids for said work as provided by law; and providing for the publication and
           effective date of this ordinance.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, state of Idaho, creating local improvement
           district no. 2; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said
           district; providing for certain improvements to be made therein; providing
      4-   for the payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed
23    27-  against the property within said district benefited thereby; stating the
      1981 method of assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement
           district warrants and bonds; appointing an engineer to prepare the necessary
           plans and specifications for the project; authorizing the advertising for
           bids for said work as provided by law; and providing for the publication and
           effective date of this ordinance.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, state of Idaho, creating local improvement
           district no. 3; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said
           district; providing for certain improvements to be made therein; providing
      4-   for the payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed
24    27-  against the property within said district benefited thereby; stating the
      1981 method of assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement
           district warrants and bonds; appointing an engineer to prepare the necessary
           plans and specifications for the project; authorizing the advertising for
           bids for said work as provided by law; and providing for the publication and
           effective date of this ordinance.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, state of Idaho, creating local improvement
           district no. 4; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said
           district; providing for certain improvements to be made therein; providing
      4-   for the payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed
25    27-  against the property within said district benefited thereby; stating the
      1981 method of assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement
           district warrants and bonds; appointing an engineer to prepare the necessary
           plans and specifications for the project; authorizing the advertising for
           bids for said work as provided by law; and providing for the publication and
           effective date of this ordinance.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, state of Idaho, creating local improvement
           district no. 5; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said
           district; providing for certain improvements to be made therein; providing
      4-   for the payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed
26-A  27-  against the property within said district benefited thereby; stating the
      1981 method of assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement
           district warrants and bonds; appointing an engineer to prepare the necessary
           plans and specifications for the project; authorizing the advertising for
           bids for said work as provided by law; and providing for the publication and
           effective date of this ordinance.
           An ordinance authorizing and providing for the establishment, organization
      12-  and operation of a public corporation to implement chapter 27, title 50,
26-B  13-  Idaho Code; approving a charter for such corporation, specifying the powers,
      1982 authority and limitations of the public corporation; providing for control
           and supervision of the public corporation by Benewah County; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
      12-  An ordinance appointing members to the board of directors of the industrial
27    13-  development corporation of Benewah County, Idaho; and providing for other
      1982 matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance relating to the issuance and sale of $120,000.00 Idaho health
           facilities authority note (Benewah Community Hospital) 1983, to finance
      6-   health facilities of Benewah County, Idaho; authorizing the execution and
29    27-  delivery by the county of an agreement and lease in connection therewith;
      1983 approving the form of the indenture being executed by other parties in
           connection with the issuance of the note; and making determinations as to
           other matters related to such project.
           An ordinance, pursuant to section 50-1711, Idaho Code, to provide that the
      12-  valuation of real property and improvements thereon as established by the
32    27-  assessor of Benewah County for taxation purposes shall be the method of
      1983 determining the actual value of property within local improvement districts,
           and providing for other matters relating thereto.
           An ordinance relating to local improvement district no. 1; amending
      2-   ordinance 22, adopted on April 27, 1981, to provide for an enlarged local
35    10-  improvement district by including therein certain real property specially
      1986 benefited by the improvements within local improvement district no. 1; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
      2-   An ordinance relating to local improvement district no. 3; amending
36    10-  ordinance 24, adopted on April 27, 1981, to exclude certain properties from
      1986 local improvement district no. 3; and providing for other matters properly
           relating thereto.
           An ordinance relating to local improvement district no. 4; amending
      2-   ordinance 25, adopted on April 27, 1981, to provide for an enlarged local
37    10-  improvement district by including therein certain real property specially
      1986 benefited by the improvements within local improvement district no. 4; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance relating to local improvement district no. 5; amending
      2-   ordinance 26, adopted on April 27, 1981, to provide for an enlarged local
38    10-  improvement district by including therein certain real property specially
      1986 benefited by the improvements within local improvement district no. 5; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance confirming the assessment roll of local improvement district
      2-   no. 1; levying assessments against the property shown on the assessment
39    10-  roll; providing for the payment of assessments in installments; providing
      1986 for appeal procedure; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance confirming the assessment roll of local improvement district
      2-   no. 2; levying assessments against the property shown on the assessment
40    10-  roll; providing for the payment of assessments in installments; providing
      1986 for appeal procedure; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance confirming the assessment roll of local improvement district
      2-   no. 3; levying assessments against the property shown on the assessment
41    10-  roll; providing for the payment of assessments in installments; providing
      1986 for appeal procedure; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance confirming the assessment roll of local improvement district
      2-   no. 4; levying assessments against the property shown on the assessment
42    10-  roll; providing for the payment of assessments in installments; providing
      1986 for appeal procedure; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance confirming the assessment roll of local improvement district
      2-   no. 5; levying assessments against the property shown on the assessment
43    10-  roll; providing for the payment of assessments in installments; providing
      1986 for appeal procedure; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance combining and consolidating Benewah County local improvement
           districts nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 into a consolidated local improvement
           district, designated Benewah County consolidated local improvement district
      4-   no. 1; authorizing the issuance and sale of consolidated local improvement
45    14-  district no. 1 bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $109,000.00;
      1986 specifying the date, form, and maturities of said bonds, establishing a bond
           fund and interest fund; providing for the redemption of bonds; approving the
           sale of bonds to the farmers home administration; and providing for other
           matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 6 of Benewah County,
           Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; appointing an engineer to
      9-   prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the work; authorizing the
48    22-  advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
      1986 payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
           the property within the district benefited thereby and the method of
           assessments; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance confirming the assessment roll of local improvement district
      2-   no. 6; levying assessments against the property shown on the assessment
56    27-  roll; providing for the payment of assessments in installments; providing
      1989 for appeal procedure; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance amending ordinance 30, to include Benewah County local
      2-   improvement district no. 6 in the provisions thereof; providing for
57    27-  inclusion of LID no. 6; providing for section III.D, notification of
      1989 charges; providing for amendment to paragraph IV.B; providing for amendment
           to paragraph IV.C; providing for conflicts; providing for severability; and
           providing for the effective date hereof.
      7-   An ordinance amending ordinance 56 providing for twenty annual installments;
62    24-  providing for publication; and providing for other matters properly relating
      1989 thereto.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, Idaho, creating and establishing a local
      8-2- improvement guarantee fund pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 17, for
63    1989 the purpose of guaranteeing, to the extent of such fund, the payment of
           principal and interest on special assessment bonds; and providing for other
           matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, Idaho, authorizing the issuance and sale of
           local improvement district no. 6 bonds, in the aggregate principal amount of
      8-2- $112,329.20; specifying the date, form, and maturities of said bonds;
64    1989 creating a bond fund and interest fund; providing for redemption of bonds;
           authorizing the execution and delivery of a bond purchase agreement;
           approving the sale of bonds to the state of Idaho department of health and
           welfare; and providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of Benewah County to provide that discrimination in the sale,
      1-   rental, leasing, financing of housing or land to be used for construction of
66    26-  housing, or in the provision of brokerage services because of race, color,
      1990 religion, sex or national origin is prohibited by title VIII of the 1968
           civil rights act (federal fair housing law).
      1-   An ordinance of Benewah County regarding the residential antidisplacement
67    26-  and relocation assistance plan under section 104(d) of the housing and
      1990 community development act of 1974, as amended.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, relating to an
           emergency ordinance finding the existence of imminent peril to the public
      2-   welfare resulting from a proposed transfer of the Lindstrom Peak wildlife
69    26-  and recreation area of Benewah County to private ownership; providing for
      1990 the title of this ordinance; providing for a background; providing for a
           purpose; providing for scope of ordinance; providing for prohibition against
           change of land use; providing for a duration of ordinance; providing for
           conflicts; providing for severability; and providing for an effective date.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, relating to an
           interim ordinance zoning certain portions of the Lindstrom Peak area as a
      7-   wildlife and recreational area; providing for the title of this ordinance;
70    23-  providing for a background; providing for a purpose; providing for scope of
      1990 ordinance; providing for prohibition against change of land use; providing
           for a duration of ordinance; providing for cancellation of ordinance 69;
           providing for conflicts; providing for severability; and providing for an
           effective date.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, relating to
           residential antidisplacement assistance plan; providing for the title of
      7-   this ordinance; providing for replacement of dwelling units; providing for
71    22-  time limits on replacing dwelling units; providing for notification to Idaho
      1991 department of commerce; providing for relocation assistance; providing for
           minimizing displacement of persons; providing for cancellation of ordinance
           67; providing for conflicts; providing for severability; and providing for
           an effective date.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 7 of Benewah County,
           Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; appointing an engineer to
      8-   prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the work; authorizing the
73    10-  advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
      1992 payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
           the property within the county benefited thereby and the method of
           assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 8 of Benewah County,
           Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; appointing an engineer to
      8-   prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the work; authorizing the
74    10-  advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
      1992 payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
           the property within the county benefited thereby and the method of
           assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 10 of Benewah County,
           Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; appointing an engineer to
      4-   prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the work; authorizing the
75    26-  advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
      1993 payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
           the property within the county benefited thereby and the method of
           assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 11 of Benewah County,
           Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; appointing an engineer to
      4-   prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the work; authorizing the
76    26-  advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
      1993 payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
           the property within the county benefited thereby and the method of
           assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
      7-   An ordinance relating to a primary lease and a lease agreement with the
78    21-  Idaho health facilities authority; authorizing the execution and delivery by
      1993 the county of a primary lease and a lease agreement.
      2-   An ordinance of Benewah County, Idaho, repealing a portion of section 4 of
81    14-  ordinance 80 adopted on January 10, 1994; and providing for other matters
      1994 properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 12 of Benewah County,
           Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; appointing an engineer to
      6-   prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the work; authorizing the
85    26-  advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
      1995 payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
           the property within the district benefited thereby and the method of
           assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of this ordinance; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance relating to the issuance and sale of $3,920,000.00 of Idaho
           health facilities authority revenue bonds (Benewah community hospital
      8-   project) series 1995; authorizing the execution and delivery by the county
87    10-  of a primary lease, a lease agreement, an official statement, and a purchase
      1995 contract in connection therewith; and approving the form of the indenture of
           trust being executed by other parties in connection with the issuance of the
           series 1995 bonds.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, Idaho, hearing and considering protests
      1-9- regarding the assessment roll for local improvement district no. 12;
89    1996 considering the engineer's report therefor; making amendments and final
           disposition of protests; providing for the publication of this ordinance by
           summary; and providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, Idaho, declaring the cost of acquiring,
           constructing, and installing improvements to the roadway system of the
           county; authorizing the issuance and sale of local improvement district no.
           12 bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $35,685.00; providing for the
      4-   date, form, maturities, and designation of said bonds; fixing the rate of
90    18-  interest on said bonds; providing for the registration and authentication of
      1996 said bonds; providing additional covenants regarding the county's guarantee
           fund; approving the sale of said bonds to West One Bank; providing for
           certain covenants relating to federal tax law; approving the official
           statement regarding the bonds; providing for the effective date of this
           ordinance; and providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, state of Idaho, exempting from taxation
           within the boundaries of St. Maries rural fire district, situate within
      4-   Benewah County, Idaho, lands located therein which fall within the following
91    22-  referenced tax assessor's categories: category 6, "Productivity Value -
      1996 Forest Land", and category 7, "Bare Forest Land Value"; and providing that
           all land within said designated categories shall be treated uniformly; and
           establishing an effective date of this ordinance.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, vacating a portion of
      3-   an unnamed roadway lying within the plat of Butler tracts, and relinquishing
93    23-  and abandoning ownership of said portion of an adjoining landowner of said
      1998 portion, providing for this ordinance to be in full force and effect from
           and after its passage, approval and publication according to law.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, state of Idaho, exempting from taxation
      7-   within the boundaries of gateway fire protection district, situate within
95    16-  Benewah County, Idaho, lands located therein which fall within the following
      1998 referenced tax assessor's category: category 5, "Day Grazing Land Value",
           and providing that all land within said designated category shall be treated
           uniformly, and establishing an effective date of this ordinance.
           Area of impact agreement; an ordinance of the county of Benewah, a political
           subdivision of the state of Idaho, setting forth a legislative purpose;
           defining a geographical area of city impact; defining the changes in area of
           impact outermost boundaries; providing for jurisdiction; identifying the
           comprehensive plan that shall apply within the established area of city
      5-   impact; identifying the zoning and subdivision ordinances that shall apply
98    10-  within the established area of impact; addressing issues applicable to this
      1999 agreement; building codes and permit requirements; floodplain ordinance;
           public streets maintenance; law enforcement and fire services;
           representation; renegotiation; variances; amendments; administration and
           enforcement; severability; providing an effective date; repealing all
           ordinances in conflict herewith pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526, and
           providing for a publication of a summary.
      6-   An ordinance providing for the transfer of ownership by way of quitclaim
102   26-  deed to the city of St. Maries, Benewah County, Idaho, for right of way
      2000 located within the Cromwell addition annexation.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, vacating a portion of
           platted right of way in Milwaukee Land Company's first addition to Fernwood,
           more particularly described as the north/south alley lying between lot five
      5-   (5) and lot eighteen (18) and lots six (6) through seventeen (17); and the
103   14-  east/west alley lying between lots one (1) through five (5) and lots
      2001 eighteen (18) through twenty two (22), all in block six (6), Milwaukee Land
           Company's first addition to Fernwood, recorded in Benewah County, Idaho; and
           providing for vacation and vestment of title; providing for reservation of
           easement; providing for severability; providing for an effective date.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, vacating the alleys
           located in block 10 and block 11 and the remaining portion of 9th Street
      7-9- lying between block 10 and block 11 in St. Joe City, as recorded in
104   2001 September 1907, in book B of plats, page 144, records of Benewah County,
           state of Idaho; and providing for vacation and vestment of title; providing
           for reservation of easement; providing for severability; providing for an
           effective date.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 03-1 of Benewah County,
           Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; authorizing the
      7-   advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
106   14-  payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
      2003 the property within the district benefited thereby and the method of
           assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of a summary of this ordinance;
           and providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, Idaho, approving and confirming the
           assessment roll of its local improvement district no. 03-1 for the
      10-  construction and installation of certain roadway improvements within the
107   14-  limits of local improvement district no. 03-1; providing for assessments and
      2003 for the issuance of bonds; creating certain funds and accounts and providing
           for certain covenants with regard thereto; providing for the appeal
           procedure; providing for the publication of a summary of this ordinance; and
           providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of the board of county commissioners of Benewah County, Idaho,
           declaring the cost of acquiring, constructing, and installing improvements
           to the certain roadways within the county authorizing the issuance and sale
           of local improvement district no. 03-1 bonds in the aggregate principal
      12-  amount of $95,200.00; providing for the date, form, maturities, and
108   8-   designation of said bonds; fixing the rate of interest on said bonds;
      2003 providing for the registration and authentication of said bonds; providing
           additional covenants regarding the county's guarantee fund; approving the
           sale of said bonds to Richard, Merrill & Peterson, Inc.; providing for
           certain covenants relating to federal tax law; providing for the effective
           date of this ordinance; and providing for other matters properly relating
           thereto.
           An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery by the county of a lease
      1-   agreement to finance remodel and expansion of surgical suites and the
109   26-  purchase of certain equipment for Benewah community hospital.1102-28-2005An
      2004 ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery by the county of an
           amendment to lease agreement to finance remodel and expansion of surgical
           suites and the purchase of certain equipment for Benewah Community Hospital.
           An ordinance creating local improvement district no. 06-01 of Benewah
           County, Idaho; describing and setting forth the boundaries of said district;
           providing for the improvements to be made therein; authorizing the
2006- 8-   advertising for bids for said work as provided by law; providing for the
111   17-  payment of costs and expenses of said improvements to be assessed against
      2006 the property within the district benefited thereby and the method of
           assessment; providing for the issuance of local improvement district bonds
           and warrants; providing for the publication of a summary of this ordinance;
           and providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, vacating a portion of
           platted right of way in Milwaukee Land Company's first addition to Fernwood,
2006- 9-   more particularly described as the north/south alley lying between lots
112   11-  thirteen (13) through sixteen (16) and lots six (6) through twelve (12), all
      2006 in block five (5), Milwaukee Land Company's first addition to Fernwood,
           recorded in Benewah County, Idaho; and providing for reservation of
           easement; providing for severability; providing for an effective date.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, providing for the
2007- 2-   amendment of section 1 of ordinance 2006-112, county of Benewah, dated
003   12-  September 11, 2006, entitled "Vacation And Vestment Of Title", to include
      2007 lot 5 to the legal description described therein; and providing for
           severability and an effective date.
           An ordinance of Benewah County, Idaho, approving and confirming the
           assessment roll of its local improvement district no. 06-01 for construction
      3-   and installation of certain improvements within the limits of local
2007- 12-  improvement district no. 06-01; providing for assessments and for the
01    2007 issuance of bonds; creating certain funds and accounts and providing for
           certain covenants with regard thereto; providing for the appeal procedure;
           providing for the publication of a summary of this ordinance; and providing
           for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of the board of commissioners of Benewah County, Idaho,
           declaring the cost of acquiring, constructing, and installing improvements
           to the certain roadways within the county; authorizing the issuance and sale
           of local improvement district no. 06-01 bonds in the aggregate principal
2007- 8-   amount of $151,125.72; providing for the date, form, maturities, and
04    23-  designation of said bonds; fixing the rate of interest on said bonds;
      2007 providing for the registration and authentication of said bonds; providing
           additional covenants regarding the county's guarantee fund; approving the
           sale of said bonds to Jeffrey P. Keck; providing for certain covenants
           relating to federal tax law; providing for the effective date of this
           ordinance; and providing for other matters properly relating thereto.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, state of Idaho, vacating a portion of
           platted right of way commonly known as "Wild Rose Lane" lying over and
           across the northwest quarter (NW 1/4) of section twenty (20), township forty
2008- 7-   six (46) north, range two (2) west, Boise Meridian, recorded in Benewah
118   27-  County, Idaho; providing for vacation of right of way to adjacent property
      2009 owner; providing for vesting of title; providing for the conveyance and
           reservation of easement to Benewah County from the adjacent property owner
           as a condition of vacation; providing for severability; providing for an
           effective date.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, a political subdivision of the state
2013- 2-   of Idaho, to amend the Benewah County comprehensive plan to provide for a
131   11-  new section 16 agriculture and 17 national interest electrical transmission
      2013 corridor and further providing for the repeal of conflicting ordinances, for
           severability, and for an effective date.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, a political subdivision of the state
           of Idaho, to describe the 911 service area for the Benewah County
2013- 11-  consolidated emergency communications system; providing for the definition
134   12-  of the governing board; providing for designation of an administrator;
      2013 providing for the designation of the agency to service the 911 calls;
           providing for severability; repealing conflicting ordinances and providing
           an effective date.
      8-   An ordinance of the County of Benewah, State of Idaho, providing for the
2019- 12-  abandonment and vacation of all platted streets and alleys located within
143   2019 the plat of the Village of St. Joe; providing for reservation of easement;
           providing for severability; and providing for an effective date.
           An ordinance of the County of Benewah, State of Idaho, providing for the
2019- 11-  vacation of a portion of Myrtle Street in Emida, Benewah County, Idaho lying
144   12-  between Lot 12, Block 12 and Lot 7, Block 11, Emida, according to the
      2019 recorded plat thereof, Benewah County, Idaho; providing for severability;
           providing for an effective date upon publication.
           An ordinance of the County of Benewah, State of Idaho, providing for the
           abandonment and vacation of an unnamed platted street or alley located in
2020- 11-  the southwest quarter of section 21, township 46 north, range 1 east, Boise
147   23-  Meridian, Benewah County, Idaho described as an extension of the alley lying
      2020 at the southwest corner of block 27 and extending westerly outside the
           amended plat of Ferrell; providing for severability; and providing for an
           effective date.
           An ordinance of the County of Benewah, State of Idaho, providing for the
2022- 12-  abandonment and vacation of portions of Fifth Street adjacent to blocks 4
154   12-  and 5 and the entirety the alley in block 4, Fernwood-Milwaukee Land Co.,
      2022 1st Addition Fernwood, Idaho; providing for conflict; providing for
           severability; and providing for an effective date.
           An ordinance of the County of Benewah, State of Idaho, providing for the
2022- 12-  abandonment and vacation of an unnamed right-of-way lying over and across a
155   12-  portion of Township 43 north, range 4 west, section 5, Benewah County,
      2022 Idaho; providing for conflict; providing for severability; and providing for
           an effective date.
           An ordinance fo the county of Benewah, State of Idaho, providing for the
2024- 8-   abandonment and vacation of a portion of “Myrtle Street” located east of
160   12-  highway 6, between block 4 and 15, Emida, Benewah County, Idaho; providing
      2024 for reservation of easement; providing for severability; and providing for
           an effective date.
           An ordinance of the county of Benewah, State of Idaho, providing for the
2024- 5-   abandonment and vacation of a portion of seventh street located between
161   28-  highway 3 south and Elk street. Fernwood, Benewah County, Idaho; providing
      2024 for reservation of easement; providing for severability; and providing for
           an effective date.
      
 
