COUNTY CODE
of
BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO
2018
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-09, passed January 18, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This County Code of Bingham County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-09, passed January 18, 2025.
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE 2025-03
TITLE 2 “BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS”
CHAPTER 2 “AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA AND COMMISSION”
 
AN ORDINANCE OF BINGHAM COUNTY, A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THE STATE OF IDAHO,
TO ENACT NEW REGULATIONS WITHIN BINGHAM COUNTY CODE TITLE 2 “BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS” CHAPTER 2 “AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA AND COMMISSION” AS
REQUIRED BY IDAHO CODE TITLE 65 CHAPTER 97 “AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA ACT”,
PROVIDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BE IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT AS OF ITS
PASSAGE, APPROVAL, AND PUBLICATION ACCORDING TO LAW.
   WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners are tasked with providing for the
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Bingham County; and
 
   WHEREAS, one of the primary and essential services provided by Bingham
County is the power to enact ordinances; and
 
   WHEREAS, during the 2024 Legislative Session, the Idaho State Legislature
enacted House Bill 608, adding a new Chapter 97, Title 67, Idaho Code
(“Agricultural Protection Area Act”, or the “Act”) which establishes a new
Agricultural Protection Area (“APA”) designation through which farmers,
ranchers, and forest landowners may apply to the County to set their lands
aside for future agricultural use for terms consisting of twenty (20) years;
and
 
   WHEREAS, each county in Idaho is required by the Act to adopt an
Agricultural Protection Area ordinance. Additionally, each county is required
by the Act to appoint an Agricultural Protection Area Commission to receive,
review, and process Agriculture Protection Area applications and provide
recommendations to the Bingham County Board of County Commissioners for final
action; and
 
WHEREAS, the Board held a Public Hearing on February 18, 2025 to receive the
testimony on the proposed APA Ordinance. At the conclusion of the Public
Hearing, the Board found the proposed Ordinance reasonably necessary, in the
interest of the public, is in conformance with the new law, and should be
adopted.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BINGHAM COUNTY, BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1: Bingham County Code Title 2 Chapter 2 shall read as follows:
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA AND COMMISSION
2-2-1:    Purpose
The Agricultural Protection Area (APA) is a designation established to provide
a voluntary process through which agriculture and timber producers of Bingham
County may make an application to commit lands actively devoted to agriculture
for future agricultural use. An APA designation aims to protect productive
farmland, rangeland, and forest land; promote farm viability; support the local
agricultural economy; and provide for long-term planning stability. This area
encourages proactive planning to support the economic and cultural benefits of
working lands while respecting the property rights of landowners.
 
2-2-2: Definitions
A. This section identifies and provides the interpretation and meaning of terms
and words used in this Chapter.
   1. Agriculture Production: means activities or conditions conducted on land
actively devoted to agriculture as defined in Idaho Code Section 63-604 or on
forest land as defined in Idaho Code Section 63-1701.
 
2. Agriculture Protection Area (APA): means specific parcels of land in a
designated geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this
chapter for the purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
 
3.   Agriculture Protection Area Commission: means the advisory board to the
governing body created pursuant to Idaho Code Section 67-9705.
 
4.   Applicant: means anyone who owns five (5) acres or more of land that has
been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3)
consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of Idaho Code Sections 63-604
and 63-1701 and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an
Agriculture Protection Area.
5.   Area of City Impact (AOI): area designated by county ordinance where city
growth and development are expected to occur.
6.   Hardship: means a situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an
Agriculture Protection Area has no control and can then petition for removal
for reasons that include but are not limited to an adverse result in litigation
against the farm or landowner, death of a close family member that would lead
to unanticipated financial
      hardships, significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy due to another
person's fraud, or any other illegal activity.
   7.   Proposal: means written documents submitted to a governing body or
Agriculture Protection Area commission from a landowner regarding their
property.
2-2-3:    APA Commission
A.   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint at least three (3) and no
more than five (5) members to the Agriculture Protection Area Commission to
serve for a term of three (3) years. Members shall be actively employed by or
supporting production agriculture as further defined in Idaho Code Section 67-
9705. Agriculture Protection Area Commission members shall serve in an advisory
role and have the following responsibilities:
1. Review and make recommendations on Agriculture Protection Act applications;
and
2. Assess and report on the agricultural needs of the County.
 
B. The Board of County Commissioners may remove members of the Agriculture
Protection Area Commission at any time, with or without cause. Agriculture
Protection Area Commission members serve in a volunteer capacity without pay,
benefits, or other compensation.
2-2-4: Creation and Designation of Agricultural Protection Areas
An Agriculture Protection Area is a voluntary land use designation available to
landowners who wish to protect their agricultural land from future
nonagricultural development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must
be:
1.   At least five (5) contiguous acres;
2.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose;
3.   Assessed as agriculture or forest land with a current agricultural
exemption;
4.   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use;
5.   Not within an Area of City Impact;
6.   Located outside any areas that have been subdivided as defined in Title 10
Chapter 14 of Bingham County Code.
 
2-2-5: Content of Application
A. Landowners wishing to establish an Agriculture Protection Area designation
must apply to the Planning and Development Department in a format and content
prescribed by the Department Director. If an Application is determined by the
Planning and Development Department to not meet the criteria above or is in any
other way incomplete, it cannot be accepted by the Department. At a minimum,
the application shall include the following:
1.   The landowner and applicant’s name, phone number, email, and mailing
address;
2.   Proof of land ownership;
3.   The legal description of the parcels, structures, and facilities proposed
to be included in the Agriculture Protection Act;
4.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed Agriculture Protection Act;
5.   A letter of intent addressing all application criteria including reasons
for seeking an Agricultural Protection Act designation, the current contiguous
acres of land, land use, agricultural productivity, other relevant
characteristics of the land to be included in the Agricultural Protection Area,
the number of years the land has been in agricultural production, the types of
agricultural commodities produced, and the applicant’s plan to continue using
the land for agricultural purposes;
6.   A copy of any easements on the property and a map showing their location;
7.   A statement from Bingham County Public Works Department, Forest Service,
private owner(s), or Idaho Department of Transportation for any roadway,
driveway or easement that crosses the property that approval will not have a
negative impact on future transportation plans of their current rights of way
or easement; and
8.   Soil surveys, water rights, and any other relevant environmental
assessments on the property.
 
2-2-6: Review Process:
A.   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Planning and Development
Director shall schedule a meeting with the Agriculture Protection Area
Commission within sixty (60) days of receiving the application. The hearing
shall follow the notice and hearing procedures of Idaho Code Section 67-6509.
 
B.   The Application shall be evaluated on the following criteria:
1.       The total contiguous acreage of the land is at least five (5) acres in
size and is actively devoted to agricultural or forest production as defined in
Idaho Code Sections 63-604 and 63-1701;
2.       Proximity to an existing area of city impact;
3.       Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans
or agreements;
4.       Proximity to existing public rights of way, planned transportation
corridors, improvements, or future public rights of way;
5.    Proximity to existing or planned utility locations;
6.       Proximity to planned airport expansion or development;
7.       Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
8.    Compatibility and consistency with existing development patterns,
Comprehensive Plan designations, zoning designations, or planned development
with land use entitlements;
9.    Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed area;
10.    Soil classification, water rights and usage, and any effect on
provisions of essential services to the requested Agricultural Protection Area
land or nearby land; and
11.    Other local impacts relevant to the proposed Agriculture Protection
Area.
 
C. Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this code, the
Board of County Commissioners may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an Agriculture Protection Area, including, but not limited to,
setbacks from existing public rights of way, setbacks from existing public
structures, and a review of the land's Agriculture Protection Area designation
prior to the expiration of the designation.
 
D. Once the Agriculture Protection Act Commission makes its recommendation to
the Board of County Commissioners, the Board shall hold a public hearing and
issue its decision within 60 days. Failure to make a decision shall render the
Agriculture Protection Act Commission's recommendation final. The Board of
County Commissioner's decision shall include findings and facts supporting its
decision.
 
E. Upon making its decision, the Board of County Commissioners shall:
1.   Record the designation of an Agriculture Protection Act, a legal
description of the area, and any findings and facts with the County Clerk and
Recorder within ten (10) days; and
2.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation.
 
2-2-7: Expansion or Modification of an Agriculture Protection Area
An expansion, modification, or removal of an existing Agriculture Protection
Act shall follow the same application, review, and hearing procedures outlined
in this code. Any expansion of an Agriculture Protection Act shall be
contiguous to the Agriculture Protection Act.
 
2-2-8: Early Termination for Undue Hardship
A landowner wishing to terminate an Agriculture Protection Area must request in
writing a meeting with the Board of County Commissioners. The meeting request
shall include a proof of hardship and be submitted to the Planning and
Development Director. Early termination of the Agriculture Protection Act shall
only occur upon the proving by the landowner of an undue hardship as defined in
this code. The landowner seeking to terminate an Agriculture Protection Act
bears the burden of proof in demonstrating the hardship. Early termination of
an Agriculture Protection Act is not taken lightly and will be carefully
considered.
2-2-9: Enrollment Duration and Review
Lands designated as an Agriculture Protection Act will remain so designated for
a period of twenty (20) years. If the landowner desires to continue with the
Agricultural Protection Area, no action on the part of the landowner is
necessary and the Board of County Commissioners shall automatically renew the
Agricultural Protection Area for another twenty (20) years. The Clerk of the
Board of County Commissioners shall record the renewal of the Agricultural
Protection Area pursuant to Idaho Code Section 67-9707. A landowner wishing to
end an approved Agriculture Protection Act designation after twenty (20) years
must notify the Board of County Commissioners in writing of their desire not to
renew the land's Agriculture Protection Act designation.
 
2-2-10: Land Use and Regulatory Limitations
A. Protection of Agricultural Use
1. Continuity of Agricultural Operations : The Board shall not enact local
laws, ordinances, or regulations that restrict farm structures or practices
within an Agricultural Protection Area designation unless they conflict with
recognized farming practices or the current agricultural zoning designation.
2. Zoning Amendments : The Board shall not change the agricultural zoning
designation for land within an Agricultural Protection Area designation without
the written permission of the landowner.
B. Exemptions and Limitations
1. Nuisance Protections : Agricultural activities within an Agricultural
Protection Area designation are exempt from local nuisance laws if conducted in
accordance with generally recognized farming practices.
2. Eminent Domain : Land within an Agricultural Protection Area designation is
protected from condemnation except for the expansion or maintenance of existing
highway rights-of-way or as otherwise provided by state law.
   3. Unless otherwise approved by the Board, the following land uses are not
allowed within
an Agricultural Protection Area designation:
a.   Confined animal feeding operations (CAFO);
b.   Residential subdivisions;
c.   Industrial or large-scale commercial business not directly related to
agriculture;
d.   Solar or wind energy, battery storage and other energy infrastructure not
directly supporting agricultural operations;
e.   Mining and/or resource extraction (ex. mining, gravel pits, or other
extractive industries);
f.   Landfills/hazardous waste disposal sites; and
g.   Other nonagricultural land uses.
 
2-2-11: Fees
An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs, including,
but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings and
hearings, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use
maps.
 
2-2-12: Enforcement
A. Enforcement: Board of County Commissioners or acting Code Enforcement
Officer shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this ordinance.
Any person found to be in violation of this code shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable as provided in Idaho Code Section 18-113.
 
Section 2: Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this Ordinance is held to be invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions and they shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 3: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
PASSED AND APPROVED on this 18th day of January, 2025.
 
            BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
            BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO
 
 
            _____________________________________________
            Whitney Manwaring, Chairman
 
            ______________________________________________
            Erick Jackson, Commissioner
 
 
            ______________________________________________
            Drew Jensen, Commissioner
 
Attest: _________________________________
    Pamela W. Eckhardt
    County Clerk
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2017-10
   BINGHAM COUNTY
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE COUNTY OF BINGHAM, STATE OF IDAHO
   COUNTY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the County Commissioners of the County of Bingham, State of
Idaho, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the County
Code of the County of Bingham, State of Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the Governing Body
of the County, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and law of the County as enacted by the County Commissioners.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official County Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the County Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
County Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official County Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the County Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official County Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the County to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED and APPROVED this 22nd day of December, 2017.
      BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
      BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO
      A. Ladd Carter, Chairman
ATTEST:
      Whitney Manwaring, Commissioner
Pamela W. Eckhardt
Bingham County Clerk
      Mark R. Bair, Commissioner
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BINGHAM COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the Official County Code of
Bingham County. This Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BINGHAM
COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the County Commissioners
and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the
County as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2018 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the County of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2018 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2018 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said Code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the County and shall be returned to the Office of the
County Clerk when directed so to do by order of the County Commissioners. (2018
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the County passed prior
to the adoption of this Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Tax levy ordinances.
      2.   Appropriation ordinances.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
      6.   Salary ordinances.
      7.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, public ways or
other public places in the County.
      8.   Local improvement districts.
      9.   Bond ordinances.
      10.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      11.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the County.
      12.   Ordinances designating zone changes to specific property.
      13.   All special ordinances.
   B.   Continuance Of Effect: All ordinances listed in subsection A of this
section shall continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if fully
set out herein. (2018 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current And Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the County herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the County under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2018 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any part hereof, or any portion adopted by reference or any codes or
portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this Code, or any part hereof, or any portion adopted by reference or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein. The Board of County Commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Board of County Commissioners may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other County officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of Bingham County".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
County has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the County's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2018
Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in the ordinances of the County,
and this Code, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or
phrases:
COUNTY: The County of Bingham, State of Idaho.
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OR BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Bingham
County, Idaho.
IC: Idaho Code.
LAW: Applicable Federal law, the Constitution and Statutes of the State of
Idaho, the ordinances of the County of Bingham, and, when appropriate, any and
all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
PERSON: An actual person, any persons and associations, clubs, societies,
firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and corporate, or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them, unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
STATE: The State of Idaho. (2018 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section of this Code, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by County ordinance or this Code, every offense declared to be a
misdemeanor is punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by
both, together with such costs as may be required by law. These punishments
shall comply with Idaho Code section 18-113, as amended. If a penalty is
limited by State law, such violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the
maximum permitted by State law.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no incarceration may
be imposed. (2018 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code, the
Prosecuting Officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2018 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the Board of County Commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-5-1: Authority And Purpose
1-5-2: Definitions
1-5-3: Power Of Direct Legislation
1-5-4: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-5-5: Signature Requirements
1-5-6: Special Election
1-5-7: General Requirements
1-5-8: Effect Of Measure; Majority Vote
1-5-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Authority: This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by
Idaho Code section 31-714 and Idaho Code section 31-717.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for direct
legislation by the people through initiative and referendum and to set forth
the rules and procedures pertaining thereto. (Ord. 98-04, 3-5-1998)
1-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
INITIATIVE: The right of the people at an election to adopt, amend or repeal
legislation.
REFERENDUM: The right of the people at an election to approve or reject
legislation adopted by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 98-04, 3-5-
1998)
1-5-3: POWER OF DIRECT LEGISLATION:
The qualified electors of the County shall have the power of direct legislation
through the initiative and referendum as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 98-04, 3-
5-1998)
1-5-4: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
Petitioners for initiative or referendum shall be not less than twenty percent
(20%) of the qualified electors voting in the County in the last general
election. (Ord. 98-04, 3-5-1998)
1-5-5: SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Referendum: Initial petitions for referendum shall contain not fewer
than twenty (20) signatures of qualified electors of the County and shall be
filed with the County Clerk not less than thirty (30) days following the final
publication of the ordinance to be subject to referendum as provided in Idaho
Code section 31-715. After the initial filing of the petition, the provisions
of section
1-5-7 of this chapter shall apply. Completed petitions with the requisite
number of signatures for referendum shall be filed with the County Clerk not
more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of approval of the form
in subsection 1-5-7D of this chapter.
   B.   Initiative: Completed petitions, with the requisite number of
signatures for initiative, shall be filed with the County Clerk not more than
one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of approval of the form in
subsection 1-5-7D of this chapter.
   C.   Gathering Signatures: All requirements for gathering signatures shall
be met by or within the time frames imposed by subsections A and B of this
section. (Ord. 98-04, 3-5-1998)
1-5-6: SPECIAL ELECTION:
A special election for initiative or referendum shall be provided as prescribed
in Idaho Code section 34-106, and shall not be held more than ninety (90) days
following the certification of the petition; provided, that in the event a
general or primary election will occur within the ninety (90) days, the
initiative or referendum shall be submitted at the time of the general primary
election. (Ord. 98-04, 3-5-1998)
1-5-7: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements for signature, verification of valid petitions,
printing of petition, review of measures, and time limits, except as expressly
modified herein, shall be as nearly as practicable as provided in Idaho Code
sections 34-1801 through 34-1811 and 34-1813 through 34-1822:
   A.   Before beginning to circulate any petition for an initiative or for a
referendum on any ordinance passed by the Board of County Commissioners, the
person or organization under whose authority the measure is to be initiated or
referred shall send or deliver to the County Clerk a copy of such petition duly
signed by at least twenty (20) qualified electors of the County which shall be
filed by said officer in his office, and who shall immediately transmit a copy
of the petition to the Prosecuting Attorney for the issuance of the certificate
of review as provided in Idaho Code section 34-1809.
   B.   After receiving a copy of the petition from the County Clerk, the
County Prosecuting Attorney may confer with the petitioner and shall, within
ten (10) working days from receipt thereof, review the proposal for matters of
substantive import and shall recommend to the petitioner such revision or
alteration of the measure as may be deemed necessary and appropriate. The
recommendations of the Prosecuting Attorney shall be advisory only and the
petitioner may accept or reject them in whole or in part. The Prosecuting
Attorney shall issue a certificate of review to the County Clerk certifying
that he has reviewed the measure for form and style and that the
recommendations thereon, if any, have been communicated to the petitioner, and
such certificate shall be issued whether or not the petitioner accepts such
recommendations. Within fifteen (15) working days after the issuance of a
certificate of review, the petitioner, if he desires to proceed with his
sponsorship, shall file the ballot measure with the County Clerk for assignment
of a ballot title. Other requirements shall be as provided in Idaho Code
section 34-1809.
   C.   Preparation of the ballot title by the Prosecuting Attorney shall be as
prescribed in Idaho Code section 34-1809.
   D.   After the form of the initiative or referendum petition has been
approved by the County Clerk, the petition shall be printed by the person or
organization under whose authority the measure is to be initiated or referred
and circulated in the County for the signatures of legal voters.
   E.   Verification of petition and signatures shall be as prescribed in Idaho
Code section 34-1807.
   F.   Upon final certification of the petition, the County Clerk shall order
an election to be held pursuant to Idaho Code section 34-106.
   G.   If the County Clerk shall refuse to accept and file any petition for
the initiative or for the referendum with the requisite number of signatures of
qualified electors thereto attached, any citizen may apply, within ten (10)
working days after such refusal, to the District Court for a writ of mandamus
to compel him to do so. If it shall be decided by the court that such petition
is legally sufficient, the County Clerk shall then file it, with a certified
copy of the judgment attached thereto, as of the date on which it was
originally offered for filing in his office. On a showing that any petition
filed is not legally sufficient, the court may enjoin the County Clerk and all
other officers from certifying or printing on the official ballot for the
ensuing election the ballot title and numbers of such measure. All such suits
shall be advanced on the court docket and heard and decided by the court as
quickly as possible. Either party may appeal to the Supreme Court within ten
(10) working days after a decision is rendered.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any false affidavit
concerning any petition in this section or to leave a petition unattended for
the purpose of gathering signatures. Any person violating any of the provisions
of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 98-04, 3-5-1998)
1-5-8: EFFECT OF MEASURE; MAJORITY VOTE:
Any measure so initiated by or referred to the people shall take effect and
become a law when it is approved by a majority of the votes cast thereon, and
not otherwise. (Ord. 98-04, 3-5-1998)
CHAPTER 6
CONDUCT OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Authority
1-6-2: Notice Required
1-6-3: Records Maintained
1-6-4: Order Of Events
1-6-5: Testimony
1-6-6: Copies Of Official Record Available
1-6-7: Rulings By Presiding Officer
1-6-1: AUTHORITY:
All public hearings conducted pursuant to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65 shall
comply with the standards set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 84-2, 3-19-1984)
1-6-2: NOTICE REQUIRED:
Prior to conducting a public hearing as specified herein, proper notice of said
public hearing shall be given as required by Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65.
(Ord. 84-2, 3-19-1984)
1-6-3: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The respective Clerks of the County Commissioners and Planning and Zoning
Commission holding public hearings pursuant to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65
shall maintain records of the proceedings in accordance with Idaho Code.
(Ord. 84-2, 3-19-1984; amd. Ord. 2025-01, 1-2-2025)
1-6-4: ORDER OF EVENTS:
Public hearings shall follow the order of events set forth below:
   A.   Explanation of the application or subject of the hearing which may
include a report from staff or County legal counsel;
   B.   Presentation by the applicant or the applicant’s representative which
shall be defined as one person;
   C.   Testimony from audience in favor of, in neutral, and/or against the
proposal;
   D.   Rebuttal from the applicant or the applicant’s representative who
presented the proposal.
   E.   Closure of oral testimony from applicant or the applicant’s
representative and audience;
   F.   Discussion of hearing subject among County Commissioners or Planning
and Zoning Commission members; questions may also be directed to County staff
and/or County legal counsel during this period; and
   G.   Conclusion of hearing process.
   H.   At any point during the public hearing, the County Commissioners,
Planning and Zoning Commission, County staff and/or County legal counsel may
ask questions of the person providing testimony.
(Ord. 84-2, 3-19-1984; amd. Ord. 2025-01, 1-2-2025)
1-6-5: TESTIMONY:
   A.   Oral Testimony:
      1.   Time Limitation On Oral Testimony: The presiding officer may limit
the time allotted to presentation of oral testimony at a public hearing. Any
such allocation of time shall provide for a reasonable opportunity for
proponents and opponents of an issue to be heard.
      2.   Standards For Oral Testimony: Oral testimony made at a public
hearing shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Testimony should directly address the public hearing subject and
show cause, if any, if the requested application meets or does not meet the
regulations of Bingham County Code and/or Idaho Code;
         b.   Testimony should not be repetitious with other entries into the
record;
         c.   Testimony shall comply with any time restrictions established by
the presiding officer;
         d.   Testimony should not be personally malicious, contain
profanities, be obscene or threatening in any form;
         e.   It may be required that persons wishing to give testimony will be
asked to sign a statement prior to the beginning of the hearing stating their
wishes to give testimony; in such cases, only those persons who have expressed
such a desire will be heard;
         f.   In such cases and where an allotted time has been given, a person
may give his or her time to a spokesperson in order for them to have adequate
time to present their testimony.
   B.   Written Testimony:
      1.   Compliance With Standards: Written testimony submitted for inclusion
in the record of any public hearing shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Written testimony must be submitted prior to the time announced
for the hearing. No more than two (2) pages of written testimony will be
accepted less than eight (8) calendar days before a hearing;
         b.   Written testimony shall include the signature and address of the
submitter;
         c.   Written testimony should address the issue at hand; and
         d.   Written testimony should not be personally malicious.
      2.   Failure To Comply: If written testimony fails to comply with the
aforementioned standards, the presiding officer may declare such testimony
inadmissible.
(Ord. 84-2, 3-19-1984; amd. Ord. 2025-01, 1-2-2025)
1-6-6: COPIES OF OFFICIAL RECORD AVAILABLE:
Copies of material submitted for inclusion in the official record of a public
hearing shall be available to interested parties upon payment of the usual
charges for research and copying made by the County. (Ord. 84-2, 3-19-1984)
1-6-7: RULINGS BY PRESIDING OFFICER:
All rulings shall be decided by the presiding officer of any board conducting a
public hearing with right of appeal to the Commissioners by any member present.
"Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the conduct of all public hearings in
which the rules are applicable, and in which they are not inconsistent with the
bylaws, special rules of order of the County Commissioners or of any board or
commission or the laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 84-2, 3-19-1984)
CHAPTER 7
FINANCE AND FEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: 911 Emergency Service Fee
1-7-2: Business Property; Minimum Investment To Qualify For Tax Exemption
1-7-1: 911 EMERGENCY SERVICE FEE:
   A.   Fee Imposed: One dollar ($1.00) per month shall be assessed against all
access lines, including wireless and cellular phones, as an emergency
communications fee, for the purpose of providing Bingham County with a new
emergency telephone system to upgrade and maintain the existing 911 (E-911)
service. (Ord. 2003-02, 7-17-2003)
   B.   Purpose: This section is intended to implement the authority set out in
Idaho Code sections 31-4801 through 31-4814, which expressly authorizes the
collection of emergency communications fees from wireless users and to
implement the collection of the emergency communications fee on the use of both
telephone lines and wireless communications systems and any other communication
system(s) recognized under Idaho Code sections 31-4801 through 31-4814. (Ord.
2003-02, 7-17-2003; amd. 2018 Code)
1-7-2: BUSINESS PROPERTY; MINIMUM INVESTMENT TO QUALIFY FOR TAX EXEMPTION:
   A.   Per Idaho Code section 63-602NN(2)(g), the minimum investment amount
for plant investment at project sites within Bingham County, Idaho, is set at a
minimum threshold of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00); and
   B.   Those seeking a property tax exemption under Idaho Code section 63-
602NN must still meet the other requirements of that section in order to be
granted the property tax exemption. (Ord. 2017-09, 10-2-2017)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
(Ord. 2021-6, 7-23-2021)
CHAPTER 9
SPLIT OR COMBINED REAL PROPERTY PARCEL PAYMENT REQUIREMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Short Title And Purpose
1-9-2: Payment Date
1-9-3: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
1-9-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as: Split Or Combined Real Property
Parcel Payment Requirement Ordinance. (Ord 2020-8, 10-14-2020)
1-9-2: PAYMENT DATE:
That all prior taxes assessed on any splits or combined real property parcels
must be paid in full up to April 15th of each year. After April 15th, the
pending year's taxes must be pre-paid before the Bingham County Assessor's
Office will create and issue a new RP number/Tax Number for the split or
combination. (Ord 2020-8, 10-14-2020)
1-9-3: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
Where any provision of this ordinance conflicts with any other provision of
this ordinance, or any other law or ordinance, the more stringent requirement,
regulation, restriction or limitation shall apply. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, it is the intent of the Board that this ordinance completely embody
all ordinances, regulations and requirements pertaining Bingham County
Ordinances. Therefore, any prior Resolutions and Ordinances, heretofore adopted
by the Board in relation to the matters contained herein, are hereby declared
null, void and of no effect as of and for matters occurring after the effective
date of this ordinance. (Ord 2020-8, 10-14-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF COMMUNITY GUARDIANS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Authority, Purpose And Findings
2-1-2: Creation And Operation Of Board
2-1-3: Adoption Of Bylaws
2-1-4: Relationship To Board Of County Commissioners
2-1-1: AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   Authority: The Bingham County Board of Commissioners have authority to
adopt the provisions of this chapter pursuant to Idaho law, including, but not
limited to Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-715, and 31-716, Idaho Code sections
15-5-601, 15-5-602, and 15-5-603, and article XII, section 2 of the
Constitution of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 2005-06, 5-16-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Purpose: This chapter is intended to confirm and validate the creation
and existence of the Bingham County Board of Guardians and to address the
authority and structure of the Board of Guardians.
   C.   Findings: The Board of County Commissioners find and hereby determines
that there exists a need within Bingham County for a guardian for those in need
of guardianship and for whom there is no person or corporation qualified and
willing to act in such capacity. Accordingly, it is deemed of public necessity
that a Board of Guardians be created as set forth in Idaho Code title 15,
chapter 5, part 6. (Ord. 2005-06, 5-16-2005)
2-1-2: CREATION AND OPERATION OF BOARD:
A Board of Guardians shall be created, maintained and operated as set forth in
Idaho Code title 15, chapter 5, part 6. (Ord. 2005-06, 5-16-2005)
2-1-3: ADOPTION OF BYLAWS:
The Board of Community Guardians is hereby authorized to adopt its own bylaws
to promote the effective and orderly transaction of its obligations and duties.
(Ord. 2005-06, 5-16-2005)
2-1-4: RELATIONSHIP TO BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
The Board of Community Guardians is a County agency. However, there shall be no
right to appeal decisions of the Board of Community Guardians to the Board of
County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners shall designate one of
the County Commissioners to be an ex officio member of the Board of Community
Guardians. However, such Commissioner shall not be a voting member of the Board
of Community Guardians. (Ord. 2005-06, 5-16-2005)
CHAPTER 2
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA AND COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: APA Commission
2-2-4: Creation And Designation Of Agricultural Protection Areas
2-2-5: Content Of Application
2-2-6: Review Process
2-2-7: Expansion Or Modification Of An Agriculture Protection Area
2-2-8: Early Termination For Undue Hardship
2-2-9: Enrollment Duration And Review
2-2-10: Land Use And Regulatory Limitations
2-2-11: Fees
2-2-12: Enforcement
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
The Agricultural Protection Area (APA) is a designation established to provide
a voluntary process through which agriculture and timber producers of Bingham
County may make an application to commit lands actively devoted to agriculture
for future agricultural use. An APA designation aims to protect productive
farmland, rangeland, and forest land; promote farm viability; support the local
agricultural economy; and provide for long-term planning stability. This area
encourages proactive planning to support the economic and cultural benefits of
working lands while respecting the property rights of landowners. (Ord. 2025-
09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
This section identifies and provides the interpretation and meaning of terms
and words used in this Chapter.
 
                        Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: devoted to agriculture as defined in Idaho Code Section
                        63-604 or on forest land as defined in Idaho Code
                        Section 63-1701.
 
                                        Specific parcels of land in a
                                        designated geographic area voluntarily
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA (APA):      created under the authority of this
                                        chapter for the purpose of protecting
                                        and preserving agricultural land.
                                        The advisory board to the governing
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION: body created pursuant to Idaho Code
                                        Section 67-9705.
                                        Anyone who owns five (5) acres or more
                                        of land that has been in active
                                        agricultural or forest production for
                                        the previous three (3) consecutive
APPLICANT:                              years, consistent with the provisions
                                        of Idaho Code Sections 63-604 and 63-
                                        1701 and who voluntarily applies for
                                        that land to be part of an Agriculture
                                        Protection Area.
                                        Area designated by county ordinance
AREA OF CITY IMPACT (AOI):              where city growth and development are
                                        expected to occur.
                                        A situation or circumstance over which
                                        a landowner in an Agriculture
                                        Protection Area has no control and can
                                        then petition for removal for reasons
                                        that include but are not limited to an
HARDSHIP:                               adverse result in litigation against
                                        the farm or landowner, death of a close
                                        family member that would lead to
                                        unanticipated financial hardships,
                                        significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy
                                        due to another person's fraud, or any
                                        other illegal activity.
                                        Written documents submitted to a
                                        governing body or Agriculture
PROPOSAL:                               Protection Area commission from a
                                        landowner regarding their property.
                                        (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
 
2-2-3: APA COMMISSION:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint at least three (3) and
no more than five (5) members to the Agriculture Protection Area Commission to
serve for a term of three (3) years. Members shall be actively employed by or
supporting production agriculture as further defined in Idaho Code Section 67-
9705. Agriculture Protection Area Commission members shall serve in an advisory
role and have the following responsibilities:
      1.   Review and make recommendations on Agriculture Protection Act
applications; and
      2.   Assess and report on the agricultural needs of the County.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners may remove members of the Agriculture
Protection Area Commission at any time, with or without cause. Agriculture
Protection Area Commission members serve in a volunteer capacity without pay,
benefits, or other compensation. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-4: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS:
An Agriculture Protection Area is a voluntary land use designation available to
landowners who wish to protect their agricultural land from future
nonagricultural development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must
be:
   A.   At least five (5) contiguous acres;
   B.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose;
   C.   Assessed as agriculture or forest land with a current agricultural
exemption;
   D.   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use;
   E.   Not within an Area of City Impact;
   F.   Located outside any areas that have been subdivided as defined in Title
10 Chapter 14 of Bingham County Code. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-5: CONTENT OF APPLICATION:
   A.    Landowners wishing to establish an Agriculture Protection Area
designation must apply to the Planning and Development Department in a format
and content prescribed by the Department Director. If an Application is
determined by the Planning and Development Department to not meet the criteria
above or is in any other way incomplete, it cannot be accepted by the
Department. At a minimum, the application shall include the following:
      1.   The landowner and applicant's name, phone number, email, and mailing
address;
      2.   Proof of land ownership;
      3.   The legal description of the parcels, structures, and facilities
proposed to be included in the Agriculture Protection Act;
      4.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed Agriculture Protection
Act;
      5.   A letter of intent addressing all application criteria including
reasons for seeking an Agricultural Protection Act designation, the current
contiguous acres of land, land use, agricultural productivity, other relevant
characteristics of the land to be included in the Agricultural Protection Area,
the number of years the land has been in agricultural production, the types of
agricultural commodities produced, and the applicant's plan to continue using
the land for agricultural purposes;
      6.   A copy of any easements on the property and a map showing their
location;
      7.   A statement from Bingham County Public Works Department, Forest
Service, private owner(s), or Idaho Department of Transportation for any
roadway, driveway or easement that crosses the property that approval will not
have a negative impact on future transportation plans of their current rights
of way or easement; and
      8.   Soil surveys, water rights, and any other relevant environmental
assessments on the property. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-6: REVIEW PROCESS: 
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Planning and Development
Director shall schedule a meeting with the Agriculture Protection Area
Commission within sixty (60) days of receiving the application. The hearing
shall follow the notice and hearing procedures of Idaho Code Section 67-6509.
   B.   The Application shall be evaluated on the following criteria:
      1.   The total contiguous acreage of the land is at least five (5) acres
in size and is actively devoted to agricultural or forest production as defined
in Idaho Code Sections 63-604 and 63-1701;
      2.   Proximity to an existing area of city impact;
      3.   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans
or agreements;
      4.   Proximity to existing public rights of way, planned transportation
corridors, improvements, or future public rights of way;
      5.   Proximity to existing or planned utility locations;
      6.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development;
      7.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
      8.   Compatibility and consistency with existing development patterns,
Comprehensive Plan designations, zoning designations, or planned development
with land use entitlements;
      9.    Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed
area;
      10.   Soil classification, water rights and usage, and any effect on
provisions of essential services to the requested Agricultural Protection Area
land or nearby land; and
      11.   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed Agriculture Protection
Area.
   C.   Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this code,
the Board of County Commissioners may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an Agriculture Protection Area, including, but not limited to,
setbacks from existing public rights of way, setbacks from existing public
structures, and a review of the land's Agriculture Protection Area designation
prior to the expiration of the designation.
   D.   Once the Agriculture Protection Act Commission makes its recommendation
to the Board of County Commissioners, the Board shall hold a public hearing and
issue its decision within 60 days. Failure to make a decision shall render the
Agriculture Protection Act Commission's recommendation final. The Board of
County Commissioner's decision shall include findings and facts supporting its
decision.
   E.   Upon making its decision, the Board of County Commissioners shall:
      1.   Record the designation of an Agriculture Protection Act, a legal
description of the area, and any findings and facts with the County Clerk and
Recorder within ten (10) days; and
      2.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation.
(Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-7: EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF AN AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA:
An expansion, modification, or removal of an existing Agriculture Protection
Act shall follow the same application, review, and hearing procedures outlined
in this code. Any expansion of an Agriculture Protection Act shall be
contiguous to the Agriculture Protection Act. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-8: EARLY TERMINATION FOR UNDUE HARDSHIP:
A landowner wishing to terminate an Agriculture Protection Area must request in
writing a meeting with the Board of County Commissioners. The meeting request
shall include a proof of hardship and be submitted to the Planning and
Development Director. Early termination of the Agriculture Protection Act shall
only occur upon the proving by the landowner of an undue hardship as defined in
this code. The landowner seeking to terminate an Agriculture Protection Act
bears the burden of proof in demonstrating the hardship. Early termination of
an Agriculture Protection Act is not taken lightly and will be carefully
considered. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-9: ENROLLMENT DURATION AND REVIEW:
Lands designated as an Agriculture Protection Act will remain so designated for
a period of twenty (20) years. If the landowner desires to continue with the
Agricultural Protection Area, no action on the part of the landowner is
necessary and the Board of County Commissioners shall automatically renew the
Agricultural Protection Area for another twenty (20) years. The Clerk of the
Board of County Commissioners shall record the renewal of the Agricultural
Protection Area pursuant to Idaho Code Section 67-9707. A landowner wishing to
end an approved Agriculture Protection Act designation after twenty (20) years
must notify the Board of County Commissioners in writing of their desire not to
renew the land's Agriculture Protection Act designation. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-
2025)
2-2-10: LAND USE AND REGULATORY LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Protection of Agricultural Use.
      1.   Continuity of Agricultural Operations: The Board shall not enact
local laws, ordinances, or regulations that restrict farm structures or
practices within an Agricultural Protection Area designation unless they
conflict with recognized farming practices or the current agricultural zoning
designation.
      2.   Zoning Amendments: The Board shall not change the agricultural
zoning designation for land within an Agricultural Protection Area designation
without the written permission of the landowner.
   B.   Exemptions and Limitations
      1.   Nuisance Protections: Agricultural activities within an Agricultural
Protection Area designation are exempt from local nuisance laws if conducted in
accordance with generally recognized farming practices.
      2.   Eminent Domain: Land within an Agricultural Protection Area
designation is protected from condemnation except for the expansion or
maintenance of existing highway rights-of-way or as otherwise provided by state
law.
      3.   Unless otherwise approved by the Board, the following land uses are
not allowed within an Agricultural Protection Area designation:
         a.   Confined animal feeding operations (CAFO);
         b.   Residential subdivisions;
         c.   Industrial or large-scale commercial business not directly
related to agriculture;
         d.   Solar or wind energy, battery storage and other energy
infrastructure not directly supporting agricultural operations;
         e.   Mining and/or resource extraction (ex. mining, gravel pits, or
other extractive industries);
         f.   Landfills/hazardous waste disposal sites; and
         g.   Other nonagricultural land uses. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-11: FEES:
An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs, including,
but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings and
hearings, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use
maps. (Ord. 2025-09, 1-18-2025)
2-2-12: ENFORCEMENT: 
   A.   Enforcement: Board of County Commissioners or acting Code Enforcement
Officer shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this ordinance.
Any person found to be in violation of this code shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable as provided in Idaho Code Section 18-113. (Ord.
2025-09, 1-18-2025)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Short Title And Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Exceptions To Regulations
3-1-4: License Required
3-1-5: Application For License
3-1-6: License Fees
3-1-7: Issuance Of License
3-1-8: Denial Of License
3-1-9: Continuance Of Qualifications
3-1-10: Expiration, Renewal Of License
3-1-11: Transfer Of License; Fee
3-1-12: Catering Permits
3-1-13: Sunday Exemption Permit
3-1-14: Location Restrictions
3-1-15: Operating Hours
3-1-16: Inspections, Access To Premises
3-1-17: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
3-1-18: Suspension, Revocation Of License
3-1-19: Penalty
3-1-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the BINGHAM COUNTY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the issuance of beer
by the drink, retail beer, retail wine, wine by the drink, and liquor by the
drink licenses and licensing fees, to provide regulations; and to establish
procedures for renewal, suspension, revocation or termination of such licenses.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to counties to
regulate the sale of alcoholic beverages as provided in the Idaho Code title
23. (2018 Code)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
BEER BY THE DRINK LICENSE: A license to sell beer by the individual glass, open
bottle, or open can at retail for consumption on the premises only.
BOTTLED BEER: Beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly and adequately
sealed in a glass, metal or other container.
DRAUGHT BEER: Beer served from a cask or keg rather from a bottle or can.
LICENSE RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer, wine
or liquor by the drink to the consumer.
LIQUOR: Any alcoholic beverage other than beer or wine.
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK LICENSE: A license to sell liquor by the drink at retail
for consumption on the premises only (includes wine).
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
PREMISES: A building in which the sale of beer, wine or liquor by the drink is
authorized.
RETAIL WINE: A license authorizing a person to sell beer at retail for
consumption off the licensed premises.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other ingredients which are added.
WINE BY THE DRINK: A license to sell wine by the drink at retail for
consumption on the premises only.
All other words and phrases used in this chapter, the definitions of which are
not herein given, shall be given their ordinary, commonly understood and
accepted meanings. (2018 Code)
3-1-3: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the State Liquor Dispensary
from acting pursuant to the Idaho Liquor Act, Idaho Code title 23. (2018 Code)
3-1-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   State License: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, wine
at retail or by the drink, or liquor by the drink within the boundaries of
Bingham County without having first procured a license for the sale of the same
from the Idaho State Police Alcohol Beverage Control.
   B.   County License: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, wine
at retail or by the drink or liquor by the drink within the boundaries of
Bingham County until a license is granted by the Board of County Commissioners
as provided by this chapter.
   C.   Display Of License: The license shall be displayed in a prominent and
conspicuous place within the establishment. (2018 Code)
3-1-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Application for license shall be in writing,
signed and sworn to by the applicant upon forms furnished by the County Clerk
and accompanied by the license issued by the Idaho State Police Alcohol
Beverage Control for the premises and for the time which the application is
made, which license shall be returned to the applicant after examination by the
Board of County Commissioners.
   B.   Qualifications Of Applicant: The applicant for any license shall
possess all of the qualifications necessary to obtain that license from the
Idaho State Police Alcohol Beverage Control, as prescribed by Idaho Code title
23 and the State IDAPA Rules. (2018 Code)
3-1-6: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Imposed: License fees, to be collected by the County Clerk at the
time of application, shall be set by resolution, as amended from time to time,
by the Bingham County Commissioners for the following:
      1.   Beer:
         a.   For retail beer, where bottle or canned beer is sold only in
closed containers, with no consumption on the premises where sold, twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per year.
         b.   For beer by the drink, where bottle or canned beer is sold, for
consumption on the premises where sold, seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year.
         c.   For beer by the drink, where draught, bottle or canned beer is
sold, for consumption on the premises where sold, one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per year.
      2.   Liquor By The Drink 1 : For liquor by the drink, the fee shall be
twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of the license fee collected by the
Idaho State Police Alcohol Beverage Control pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code title 23, chapter 9.
      3.   Wine:
         a.   For wine by the drink, for consumption on the premises, one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.
         b.   For retail wine, where wine is sold only in closed containers,
with no consumption on the premises where sold, one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per year.
   B.   Prorating Fees: If a license is issued prior to July 1 of the year in
which issued, the applicant shall pay the full annual license fee. If a license
is issued on or after July 1 of the year in which issued, the applicant shall
pay one-half (1/2) of the annual license fee. (2018 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-916.
3-1-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The Board of County Commissioners shall duly consider and evaluate all new
applications and renewal applications for a license to sell or dispense beer,
wine at retail or by the drink, or liquor by the drink, and after so
evaluating, shall determine to grant or deny each application in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. If the Board of County Commissioners so
order, the County Clerk shall issue a license to the applicant, which license
or licenses shall at all times be prominently displayed in the place of
business of the licensee and shall be issued only for the particular premises
therein described. Separate beer by the drink, retail beer, retail wine, wine
by the drink, and liquor by the drink licenses shall be required for each
premises, except that retailers holding valid licenses for the sale of liquor
by the drink may sell wine for consumption on the licensed premises. (2018
Code)
3-1-8: DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Any denial of license by the Board of County Commissioners shall be as set
forth in Idaho Code title 23. (2018 Code)
3-1-9: CONTINUANCE OF QUALIFICATIONS:
A retail license must continue throughout the license period to have all of the
qualifications and none of the disqualifications provided for in this chapter.
(2018 Code)
3-1-10: EXPIRATION, RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire at
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. October 31 of the year following the year in which the
license is issued. Renewal of the license shall be on forms prescribed and
furnished by the County Clerk. Renewal forms shall be submitted together with
the required license fee and an affidavit verifying that the information
contained in the original application is unchanged, or if there are material
changes, indicating such changes. Any licensee holding a valid license who
fails to file an application for renewal of his/her current license shall not
be permitted to sell and dispense alcohol at retail until the license is
renewed. (2018 Code)
3-1-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Transfer To Another Person; State And County Approval; Fee:
      1.   No license may be transferred to another person, including an
executor, administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the
licensee, until the transferee shall first have obtained a transfer from the
Idaho State Police Alcohol Beverage Control, and be approved by the Board of
County Commissioners to such transfer. If the transferee possesses all of the
qualifications and none of the disqualifications for such a license, the Board
shall approve the transfer, which approval shall be attached and made a part of
the license.
      2.   The fee for the transfer of a license shall be twenty dollars
($20.00).
      3.   No fee shall be collected in the following events:
         a.   The transfer of a license between husband and wife in the event
of a property division.
         b.   The transfer of a license to a receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or
similar person or officer.
         c.   The transfer of a license to the heirs or personal representative
of the estate in the event of the death of the licensee.
         d.   The transfer of a license arising out of the dissolution of a
partnership where the license is transferred to one or more of the partners.
         e.   The transfer of a license within a family whether an individual,
partnership, or corporation.
   B.   Transfer From One Location To Another: Application to transfer a
license from one location to another shall be made to the Board of County
Commissioners on forms prescribed and furnished by the County Clerk. Such a
transfer shall not be approved unless the application procedure for a new
license has been complied with. In addition, before an existing license may be
transferred to a new location, the applicant must satisfy all requirements of
the Bingham County zoning ordinance. (2018 Code)
3-1-12: CATERING PERMITS:
The application procedure and fee for alcoholic beverage catering permits shall
be as set forth in Idaho Code sections 23-934A and 23-934B. (2018 Code)
3-1-13: SUNDAY EXEMPTION PERMIT:
A licensee may make application to the Board of County Commissioners for a
Sunday exemption permit to allow the licensee to sell, serve, dispense, give
away, or dispose of alcohol for consumption on the licensed premises between
the hours regulated by Idaho Code title 23. A Sunday exemption permit shall
state the name of the licensee, the type of special event to which the permit
pertains, the date or dates covered by the permit, and the hours of the day
during which the dispensing is allowed. A licensee shall not request more than
four (4) Sunday exemption permits per year. The license shall be kept at the
licensed premises. The control and regulation of Sunday beer, wine and liquor
by the drink sales within any incorporated area of Bingham County shall be
governed by that Municipal entity. (2018 Code)
3-1-14: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Certificate Of Zoning: No license shall be granted unless a certificate
of zoning has been issued by the Bingham County Planning and Zoning Commission
if the establishment is not within an incorporated City. The zoning certificate
shall be filed with the application for a license; provided, however, that the
zoning certificate shall not be required to renew licenses, unless a zoning
certificate was not obtained when the license was originally issued, in which
case a zoning certificate is required prior to issuance of the license.
   B.   Location: No retailer's license shall be issued to any person to sell
beer, wine or liquor by the drink for consumption on the premises where any
part of the room, or other place, for such sale or consumption is:
      1.   Within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of any part of a public
school; or
      2.   Within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of any room within
which the regular religious or Sunday school service of a duly organized and
established religious sect are, or within which a hospital or nursing home is
conducted and were or was so conducted prior to issuance of such license.
   C.   Exception: This limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed
premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area,
but subsequent to licensing came therein. (2018 Code)
3-1-15: OPERATING HOURS:
   A.   Beer And Wine:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person in any place
licensed to sell beer and wine or where beer and wine is sold or dispensed to
be consumed on the premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, to sell,
dispense or give away between the following hours:
         a.   Between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. Sunday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday. The control and regulation of Sunday beer and wine
sales within any incorporated area of Bingham County shall be governed by that
Municipal entity.
         b.   On any other day between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M.
      2.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of beer
or wine has stopped as provided for in subsection A1 of this section shall have
reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverage
already served.
   B.   Liquor:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person in any place
licensed to sell liquor or where liquor is sold or dispensed to be consumed on
the premises, whether conducted for pleasure or profit, to sell, dispense or
give away between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. Monday through Saturday.
      2.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of liquor
by the drink has stopped as provided in subsection B1 of this section shall
have a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any
beverage already served.
      3.   The sale or distribution of liquor on Sundays is prohibited. The
control and regulation of Sunday liquor by the drink within any incorporated
area of Bingham County shall be governed by that Municipal entity.
      4.   No liquor shall be served on Christmas Day from one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. until ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. the following day. (2018 Code)
3-1-16: INSPECTIONS, ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The Sheriff and all Deputy Sheriffs of the County shall have the right at any
time to enter in and upon such licensed premises, and it shall be unlawful to
refuse any Deputy Sheriff admittance to or access to such premises for the
purpose of police patrol, regulation and inspection of such premises. (2018
Code)
3-1-17: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Sales: It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor
for any person to sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away, any beer, wine, or liquor to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, proof of which
shall be a valid driver's license or identification card issued by the
Department of Law Enforcement of this State.
      2.   Any person apparently or obviously intoxicated.
      3.   Any interdicted person as defined by the laws of the State.
   B.   Minors:
      1.   Any person who shall procure beer, wine, or liquor for any person
under twenty one (21) years of age who shall purchase, attempt to purchase, or
otherwise procure, consume or possess beer, wine or liquor shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      2.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who shall by any
means represent to any person licensed to sell beer, wine, or liquor at retail,
or to any agent or employee of such retail licensee, that he or she is twenty
one (21) years or more of age, for the purpose of inducing such retail
licensee, his agent or employee to sell, serve or dispense to him or her shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      3.   Any person who shall by any means represent to any person licensed
to sell beer, wine, or liquor at retail or to his agent or employee, that any
other person is twenty one (21) years or more of age, when in fact such other
person is under the age of twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing
such retail licensee, his agent or employee, to sell, serve, or dispense beer,
wine, or liquor to such other person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      4.   Whenever any person licensed to sell beer, wine, or liquor, or his
agent or employee, shall have reasonable cause to doubt that any person who
attempts to purchase or otherwise procure beer, wine or liquor from or through
such retail licensee, his agent or employee, is twenty one (21), such retail
licensee, his agent or employee, shall require such person to execute a
certificate that he/she is twenty one (21) or more years of age, and to exhibit
acceptable proof of age and identity. The form of such certificate, the manner
in which it shall be executed, the record to be kept thereof, shall be the
responsibility of the retail licensee, his agent or employee with respect to
the execution of said certificate and a determination of what shall constitute
acceptable proof of the age and identity shall be in accordance with the
provisions of Idaho Code title 23. (2018 Code)
3-1-18: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If the Board of County Commissioners shall find that a licensee has made any
false material statement in the application for a license, or did not have, or
has not retained, the qualifications for a retailer, or has acquired a
disqualification for a retailer, or is in violation of any of the prohibitions
of Idaho Code title 23, the Board of County Commissioners shall suspend, revoke
or refuse to renew such retailer's license.
   A.   No pleading shall be necessary, and any hearing before the Board of
County Commissioners shall be informal.
   B.   The procedure for notice, hearing, contest and appeal shall be as
provided by Idaho Code title 23.
   C.   In addition, the Board of County Commissioners shall consider a
petition for revocation of a valid existing license submitted by at least
seventy five percent (75%) of the resident owners of property, or if not
occupied and inhabited by a resident owner, the occupant of such property,
within a radius of one thousand feet (1,000') of any part of the premises upon
which beer, wine or liquor is sold for consumption.
   D.   If, after review of said petition for revocation of license, the Board
of County Commissioners determines that the allegations in said petition are
true and correct, the Board may take the appropriate action to revoke that
existing license. The criteria to be used by the Board of County Commissioners
to revoke pursuant to such a petition shall be the same as provided in this
section. (2018 Code)
3-1-19: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Declaration Of Purpose
3-2-2: Records Kept And Filed
3-2-3: Penalty
3-2-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
   A.   The Bingham County Board of County Commissioners (Board), located in
Bingham County, Idaho, hereby find and declare that the pawn of items easily
liquidated for cash by those who are not the rightful owners of such property
has become a serious problem in Bingham County.
   B.   The Board also finds that recovery of the lost or stolen property
becomes more difficult the longer the property is missing and that local
pawnbrokers and secondhand precious metal dealers currently do not have any way
to know whether property that is sold to them is the substance of a theft.
   C.   Therefore, the Board hereby finds that the use of the electronic
database of lost and stolen property known as "LeadsOnline" will provide
assistance to both the person who has been the victim of a theft and the
pawnbroker/secondhand dealer who has been the victim of paying money for stolen
property by providing a place for the reporting of lost and stolen property.
(Ord. 2013-02, 3-8-2013)
3-2-2: RECORDS KEPT AND FILED:
All pawnbrokers, secondhand storekeepers, and secondhand precious metal dealers
shall keep and file with the Bingham County Sheriff's Office a digital copy of
the following described records. All digital records shall be filed via
internet at a website determined by the Bingham County Sheriff's Office using
software as may be determined by the Bingham County Sheriff's Office. Such
digital records shall be filed within seventy two (72) hours after the time and
date of the transaction. The digital records required for filing shall consist
of the following records:
   A.   An accurate description of all precious metals and personal property
purchased, acquired or received.
   B.   The name, residence, driver's license number or social security number
of the person from whom any precious metals or personal property is purchased,
acquired or received.
   C.   The date and place of the purchase, acquisition or reception.
   D.   The date when such property is disposed of and the name and address of
the person receiving the same.
   E.   The serial number of any property received or sold, if that property
contains a serial number.
   F.   Any other records required to be kept under Idaho law. (Ord. 2013-02,
3-8-2013)
3-2-3: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise indicated herein, any person who pleads guilty or is found
guilty of violating any provision herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2013-02, 3-8-2013; amd. 2018 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
INDIGENT BURIAL OR CREMATION
SECTION:
4-1-1: Declaration Of Purpose
4-1-2: Designation Of Cremation Services
4-1-3: Attendance Of Services And Disposal Of Remains
4-1-4: Objections To Cremation
4-1-5: Payment Of Expenditures
4-1-6: When County Not Financially Responsible
4-1-7: Place Of Burial
4-1-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code section 31-
3412 and shall be governed by the provisions found in Idaho Code section 31-
3401 et seq. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the cremation of
the bodies of the indigent deceased who were Bingham County residents at the
time of their death. It is the stated policy of Bingham County that, absent
religious objection by the next of kin, cremation is the chosen method for
fulfilling its statutory duty as provided by Idaho Code section 31-3412. (Ord.
2009-07, 7-22-2009)
4-1-2: DESIGNATION OF CREMATION SERVICES:
The bodies of those indigent dead for whom Bingham County has responsibility
shall be disposed of by cremation and shall include a decedent who was both a
resident of Bingham County and indigent at the time of his or her death, as
determined by indigent services pursuant to a properly filed application. As
used in this chapter, "cremation services" shall not be deemed to include the
interment of cremated remains in a tomb, vault, crypt, or mausoleum, nor the
conducting of memorial or funeral services at Bingham County expense. Provided,
however, that Bingham County will cover the expense of burial of cremated
remains in a County owned burial plot or placement in a County owned crypt when
there are no known family members of the deceased or the family of the deceased
declines possession of the decedent's remains. (Ord. 2009-07, 7-22-2009)
4-1-3: ATTENDANCE OF SERVICES AND DISPOSAL OF REMAINS:
If any surviving family members of an indigent decedent so desire, the cremated
remains shall be deposited in an urn or other suitable container and custody
thereof given to that family member. If multiple family members wish to retain
the remains, they shall receive preference in the following order: spouse,
child(ren), parent(s), grandchild(ren), and sibling(s). If an indigent decedent
has no known surviving family, or if known family members decline custody of
cremated remains, such remains shall be buried in a County owned burial plot or
placed in a County owned crypt in accordance with accepted industry standards
within this community and at no additional cost to the County. (Ord. 2009-07,
7-22-2009)
4-1-4: OBJECTIONS TO CREMATION:
In the event that a surviving spouse, sibling, parent or direct descendant of
an indigent decedent objects to disposition by cremation on religious grounds
before the indigent decedent is cremated, or if cremation authorization is not
received from the County Coroner, the County may supply burial costs, in an
amount no greater than the cost the County applies toward the cremation and
shall be the established rate set by the Bingham County Commissioners pursuant
to Idaho Code section 31-3412. This amount shall be paid directly to the burial
service provider, shall not exceed the amount provided for cremations, and
shall only be provided for immediate burial or other services performed in
accordance with the State law and pursuant to local industry standards. If no
objection is made pursuant to this section, or if an indigent decedent has no
known surviving family, said indigent decedent shall be disposed of by
cremation. (Ord. 2009-07, 7-22-2009)
4-1-5: PAYMENT OF EXPENDITURES:
Upon approval of a properly filed application and upon presentation of a death
certificate, Bingham County Indigent Services will authorize a maximum
expenditure as set by resolution for cremation, or if there is an objection to
cremation on religious grounds, this same maximum will be applied toward burial
expenses. Any available resources of the decedent must be used for cremation or
burial costs prior to authorizing expenditure of County funds. (Ord. 2009-07,
7-22-2009)
4-1-6: WHEN COUNTY NOT FINANCIALLY RESPONSIBLE:
   A.   Generally: Bingham County is not financially responsible for the burial
or cremation of a deceased person who, at the time of their death, was not an
indigent resident of Bingham County or in the custody of the State of Idaho
Department of Corrections, Federal government, or any of its agencies, either
in Bingham County or elsewhere. Residency and indigency shall be determined
pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-3403.
   B.   Transportation Of Bodies: Bingham County will not pay any additional
expenditures for the transporting of a decedent or the remains to or from
Bingham County for any purpose.
   C.   Exhumation Of Deceased Bodies Buried As Indigents: Bingham County will
not pay to exhume a deceased body buried as an indigent. (Ord. 2009-07, 7-22-
2009)
4-1-7: PLACE OF BURIAL:
Bingham County currently provides a plot for burial of cremated remains.
Alternatively, the County may purchase a crypt, and in such case, cremated
remains will be kept in the custody of the Funeral Director until placement in
said crypt. Notwithstanding this provision, relatives may keep or dispose of
the remains in a manner acceptable to them. (Ord. 2009-07, 7-22-2009)
CHAPTER 2
WASTE TIRES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Authority And Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Unlawful Disposal Of Waste Tires
4-2-4: Lawful Use Or Disposal Of Waste Tires
4-2-5: Collection Site Permits
4-2-6: Revocation Of Collection Site Permit
4-2-7: County Approved Collection Sites
4-2-8: Waste Tire Account
4-2-9: Sale Of Tires; Fees; Acceptance Of Waste Tires
4-2-10: Exclusions; Applicability
4-2-11: Noncompliance
4-2-12: Penalty
4-2-13: Civil Remedies And Attorney Fees
4-2-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code
section 31-714 and Idaho Code title 39, chapter 65. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff.
7-1-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the disposal of waste tires,
to encourage the collection and recycling of waste tires, to discourage and
prohibit the burying, land filling, burning, littering and other inappropriate
disposal of waste tires in Bingham County, to supervise, regulate and provide
funds for the disposal, collection and recycling of waste tires, and to
otherwise provide for the safety and promote the health, morals, peace, order,
comfort, and convenience of the inhabitants of Bingham County, and to create a
more aesthetic and healthful environment within Bingham County. (Ord. 96-2, 5-
25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
NEW TIRE OR NEW RUBBER TRACK: A tire or rubber track which is not used or
retreaded, and is being sold on the market for the first time.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, trust, corporation, association, or
any group, organization or combination acting as a unit. This term includes any
Municipal corporation, County, or governmental agency of the State and Federal
government.
RETAIL SELLER OF TIRES AND WHOLESALE SELLER OF TIRES: Those persons who sell or
lease motor vehicles to others in the ordinary course of business.
TIRE: The meaning contained in Idaho Code section 49-121 and tire or rubber
track used in agricultural or highway ground travel.
WASTE TIRE: A tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose
because of wear, damage or defect, and includes tire bodies, carcasses or
casings.
WASTE TIRE COLLECTION SITE: A site where waste tires are temporarily collected
before being offered for recycling or reuse, and where more than two hundred
(200) waste tires are kept on site on any day. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-
1999)
4-2-3: UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL OF WASTE TIRES:
Except as permitted in section
4-2-4 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any person in Bingham County to
commit any of the following acts:
   A.   Burn a waste tire.
   B.   Bury a waste tire.
   C.   Discard a waste tire on the private land of another or on public land.
   D.   Place a waste tire in a landfill cell for permanent disposal.
   E.   Place a waste tire in any County solid waste collection dumpster, bin,
site or premises, except at designated County waste tire collection sites.
   F.   Place a waste tire in any body of water or stream channel.
   G.   Store, stockpile, or use for any purpose not permitted in section
4-2-4 of this chapter, more than two hundred (200) waste tires without a permit
issued by Bingham County.
   H.   Store or collect more than three thousand (3,000) waste tires at any
waste tire collection site which has been issued a County permit.
   I.   Store, pursuant to a permit, waste tires for a period of time in excess
of ninety (90) days. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
   J.   Commit any acts prohibited by Idaho Code title 39, chapter 65. (Ord.
96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-4: LAWFUL USE OR DISPOSAL OF WASTE TIRES:
The following methods of waste tire use or disposal, which include those
permitted by Idaho Code title 39, chapter 65, are not prohibited in Bingham
County: (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
   A.   Retreading.
   B.   Constructing collision barriers.
   C.   Controlling soil erosion or flood control only if used in accordance
with approved engineering practices.
   D.   Chopping or shredding.
   E.   Grinding for use in asphalt or as a raw material for the products.
   F.   Using as playground equipment.
   G.   Incinerating or using as a fuel or pyrolysis if permitted by law,
regulations and ordinances relating to the burning of fuel.
   H.   Hauling to out of State collection or processing sites.
   I.   Using for animal, farm crop or garden production.
   J.   Any other beneficial use, reuse or recycling of waste tires, chips or
similar material which meets the criteria set forth by the Division of
Environmental Quality of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare. (Ord. 96-
2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
4-2-5: COLLECTION SITE PERMITS:
Upon written application, public notice and public hearing as required by the
Bingham County zoning ordinances, and upon compliance with any additional
regulations or ordinances which may be promulgated by the Bingham County Board
of Commissioners, the Bingham County Planning and Zoning Commission may, in its
discretion, issue to any person a permit to operate a waste tire collection
site for the storage of three thousand (3,000) or less waste tires. Even with a
permit, waste tires must be lawfully disposed of within ninety (90) days of
when the permit holder acquires and stores the tires. The procedure for the
issuance of a waste tire collection site permit shall be the same as for
obtaining a special use permit to operate a sanitary landfill under the Bingham
County zoning ordinance as it exists at the time of the application. The zoning
use districts wherein a special use permit may be issued for a waste tire
collection site shall be Natural Resources (A/NR), Agricultural (A), Light
Commercial (C1), Heavy Commercial (C2), Light Manufacturing (M1), and Heavy
Manufacturing (M2). A waste tire collection site shall not be permitted in a
Residential/Agricultural (R/A) or Residential (R) zoning use district. (Ord.
96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-6: REVOCATION OF COLLECTION SITE PERMIT:
Either the Bingham County Board of Commissioners or the Bingham County Planning
and Zoning Commission may, in their discretion, and upon their own motion or
upon the complaint of an interested party and after any public notice and
public hearing as may be required by the Bingham County zoning ordinance,
revoke a waste tire collection site permit. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-
1999; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-7: COUNTY APPROVED COLLECTION SITES:
The following are existing waste tire collection sites operated by Bingham
County and are hereby designated as authorized, approved and permitted waste
tire collection sites, for which Bingham County shall not be required to seek a
waste tire collection site permit:
   A.   Rattlesnake Canyon Landfill Site: Such site is described as follows:
That portion of section 5 T. 2 S. R. 38 E.B.M. described as: The E1/2SW1/4NE1/
4SE1/4; S1/2NE1/4NE1/4SE1/4; SE1/4NE1/4SE1/4.
Also part of sections 4, 5 and 8, T2S, R38 E, BM, Bingham County, Idaho,
described as:
Beginning at a point that is N 89°43'27" E 1,307.27 feet to the W 1/16 corner
of the North line of said section 8 and N 89°53'17" E 1,307.30 feet to the N 1/
4 corner of said section 8 and S 00°21'24" W 1,445.44 feet along the North-
South half section line to the point of beginning, all from the NW corner of
said section 8 and running thence S 00°21'24" W 1,193.13 feet along said North-
South half section line to the center of said section 8; thence N 89°50'22" E
1,835.44 feet along, the East-West half section line; thence N 04°24'01" W
118.37 feet; thence N 21°52'47" E 528.37 feet; thence N 11°17'54" E 477.54
feet; thence N 11°31'06" E 748.24 feet; thence N 24°49'35" E 912.92 feet to the
northeast corner of said section 8; thence in said section 4 N 43°36'58" E
509.12 feet; thence N 37°22'25" E 724.15 feet; thence N 43°47'21" E 516.67
feet, more or less, to the North line of the SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of said section 4;
thence West 1,144.79 feet, more or less, along said north line to the S 1/16
corner between sections 4 and 5, T2S, R38E; thence in said section 5, S
89°54'40" W 699.29 feet to the westerly right-of-way of an access road; thence
along the following said road right-of-way calls, S 20°23'04" W 395.62 feet;
thence S 71°59'36" W 207.34 feet; thence S 53°00'59" W 160.46 feet; thence S
57°18'34" W 255.43 feet; thence S 35°51'00" W 111.72 feet; thence S 22°56'06" W
520.11 feet; thence S 42°14'22" W 345.60 feet into said section 8; thence S
21°55'35" W 384.66 feet; thence S 45°31'51" W 135.73 feet; thence S 52°22'27" W
220.24 feet; thence S 23°31'41" W 181.53 feet; thence S 32°53'19" W 205.87
feet; thence S 24°43'23" W 362.40 feet; thence S 45°38'11" W 23.77 feet to the
point of beginning.
Also part of section 8, Township 2 South, Range 38 E.B.M., Bingham County,
Idaho, described as:
The Northwest quarter of said section 8.
Also part of section 4, Township 2 South, Range 38 E.B.M., Bingham County,
Idaho, described as:
Beginning at a point that is S 00°09'12" W 407.70 feet along the section line
from the W 1/4 corner of said section 4; and running thence S 00°09'12" W
909.36 feet along the section line to the NW corner of the SW1/4SW1/4 of said
section 4; thence East 1,675.80 feet more or less along the North line of said
SW1/4SW1/4, thence N 19°31'59" E 590.05 feet; thence North 547.65 feet; thence
West 1,666.45 feet; thence S 46°24'38" W 281.94 feet to the point of beginning.
Also part of the Northeast quarter of section 8, Township 2 South, Range 38
E.B.M., Bingham County, Idaho, described as:
Beginning at the North quarter corner of said section 8, and running thence S
00°21'24" W 1,445.44 feet along the North-South half section line to the
Westerly right-of- way of an access road; thence along the following said road
right-of-way N 45°38'11" E 23.77 feet; thence N 24°43'23" E 362.40 feet; thence
N 32°53'19" E 205.87 feet; thence N 23°31'41" E 181.53 feet; thence N 52°22'27"
E 220.24 feet; thence N 45°31'51" E 135.73 feet; thence N 21°55'35" E 384.66
feet; thence N 42°14'22" E 237.24 feet to the North line of said section 8;
thence leaving said road right-of-way and running S 89°53'33" W 918.24 feet
along the section line to the point of beginning.
   B.   Aberdeen Non-Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Site: Such site is
described as follows:
Part of Lot 3, section 2, Township 6 South Range 31 E.B.M., Bingham County,
Idaho, described as:
Beginning at a point that is S 13°30'19" W 25.70 ft. along the East line of
said lot 3 from the North quarter corner of said section 2; and running thence
S 13°30'19" W 1,417.52 ft. along the said East line; thence N 89°37'04" W
521.84 ft. along the South line of said lot 3; thence N 13°30'19" E 659.36 ft.;
thence N 3°53'35" E 736.98 ft.; thence S 89°51'45" E 648.85 ft. to the point of
beginning.
   C.   Stolworthy Non-Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Site: Such site is
described as:
Part of the section 30, Township 1 South Range 38 E.B.M., Bingham County,
Idaho, described as:
Lots 2 and 3, NE1/4SW1/4, the North 600 feet of Lot 4 and the North 600 feet of
SE1/4SW1/4.
   D.   Central Non-Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Site: Such site is described
as follows:
Part of the N1/2 of section 24, Township 2 south, Range 34 E.B.M., Bingham
County, Idaho, described as:
Beginning at a point that is N 0°18'30" E. 55.00 feet along the section line
and N 89°21'40" W. 2,276.90 feet parallel to the East-West Center line from the
East 1/4 corner of said section 24 and running thence N 89°21'40" W. 1,524.37
feet; thence N 0°42'20" E 410.50 feet; thence S 89°59'36" W 66.72 feet; thence
North 2,036.00 feet; thence N 77°54'30" E 695.00 feet to the North line of said
section 24, thence S 89°02'30" E 1,020.30 feet; thence S 00°18'30" W 2,568.69
feet; thence N. 89°02'30" W 100 feet; thence S 0°28'30" W 25.00 feet to the
point of beginning.
   (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-8: WASTE TIRE ACCOUNT:
There is hereby created in the dedicated fund of Bingham County the waste tire
account. Monies in the account and the accrued earnings of said account shall
be administered by the County Commissioners and are hereby perpetually
appropriated to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-
1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
4-2-9: SALE OF TIRES; FEES; ACCEPTANCE OF WASTE TIRES:
   A.   Fees Imposed: Beginning July 1, 1996, or upon repeal of Idaho Code
title 39, chapter 65, whichever last occurs, a retail seller of tires shall
collect a fee for each new tire sold in Bingham County. The fee shall be set by
a fee schedule to be determined by resolution by the Board of County
Commissioners. Said fee schedule shall be modified as necessary by the Board of
County Commissioners by resolution. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999; amd.
2018 Code)
   B.   Wholesale Sellers Of Tires: A wholesale seller of tires who sells tires
in Bingham County to the State of Idaho or a political subdivision of the State
of Idaho or who sells tires to a private entity in Bingham County which does
not resell the tires shall collect a fee which shall be the same as provided in
subsection A of this section and shall be listed separately on any invoice.
   C.   Payment Of Fee; Deposit To Waste Tire Account: The fee imposed in this
section shall be paid to the Bingham County Clerk for deposit on a quarterly
basis in the Bingham County waste tire account.
   D.   Acceptance Of Tires: A retail seller of tires or a wholesale seller of
tires shall accept waste tires from the retailer's customers at the point of
transfer pursuant to this subsection. A seller shall accept up to the number of
tires sold at that point of transfer annually and may accept additional tires.
The seller shall accept tires from a seller's customer if the customer presents
a receipt within thirty (30) days of the date of purchase.
   E.   Posting Of Notice: A seller of tires who is subject to the provisions
of subsection D of this section shall post a written notice which is clearly
visible in the public sales area of the establishment and which contains the
following language:
It is unlawful to throw away a tire. Recycle all used tires. This retailer is
required to accept scrap tires if any new or retreaded tires are purchased
here. When any tire is purchased, an additional fee will be charged.
   F.   Credit Per Tire: A credit of ten cents ($0.10) per tire is allowed
against the fee imposed under the provisions of this section for expenses
incurred by the retail seller or wholesale seller of motor vehicle tires for
accounting for and reporting the fees.
   G.   Exception: The provisions of this section do not apply to a person
whose retail sales of tires are not in the ordinary course of business. (Ord.
96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
4-2-10: EXCLUSIONS; APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter shall have no application to tires from bicycles,
tricycles, unicycles, wheelbarrows, or other muscle powered vehicles. This
chapter shall also have no application to tires purchased in Bingham County
which are immediately and permanently removed from Bingham County.
   B.   This chapter does have application as far as all other tires go,
including, but not limited to, tires from automobiles, motorcycles, trucks,
trailers, semitrailers, truck tractors, semitrailer combination, farm equipment
and farm machinery. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
4-2-11: NONCOMPLIANCE:
Any person who is not in compliance with this chapter shall be responsible for
all expenses associated with bringing said person into compliance with this
chapter, including, but not limited to, cleanup and disposal expenses. (Ord.
96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
4-2-12: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violation of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each waste tire disposed, stored, stockpiled or used in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. Each day a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-
1999, eff. 7-1-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-13: CIVIL REMEDIES AND ATTORNEY FEES:
In addition to criminal enforcement of this chapter, Bingham County may seek
all civil and equitable remedies available at common law or under Idaho law for
the enforcement of this chapter. In the event Bingham County is the prevailing
party in any action brought in Civil Court to enforce this chapter, it shall be
awarded its reasonable costs and attorney fees against each nonprevailing
party. (Ord. 96-2, 5-25-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Authority, Title, Purpose And Applicability
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Authority And Responsibilities Of County Officers
4-3-4: Fees
4-3-5: Amendments
4-3-6: Waste Disposal Sites Established; Closure Of Landfill Sites
4-3-7: Maintenance Of Sanitary Conditions
4-3-8: Storage And Transportation Of Solid Waste
4-3-9: Disposal Of Solid Waste
4-3-10: Hazardous Wastes; Prohibited Discharges Or Deposits
4-3-11: Enforcement, Abatement And Penalties
4-3-1: AUTHORITY, TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Authority: This chapter is established pursuant to grant of authority
given to Bingham County by article XII, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution,
which provides that any county may make and enforce, within its limits, all
such police, sanitary and other regulations as are not in conflict with its
charter or with the general laws, and pursuant to the statutes and laws which
have been duly enacted by the legislature.
   B.   Title: This chapter shall be known and cited as the BINGHAM COUNTY
SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE.
   C.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish a solid waste
disposal system in Bingham County which will: promote and protect the health,
safety, comfort, and general welfare of the public, including the protection of
ground and surface water; reduce the threat to health posed by garbage, refuse,
and scrap; protect and enhance the value of real property and buildings in
Bingham County; maintain the natural and aesthetic setting of the land, water
and air resources of Bingham County; and address such other cultural, social,
economic and sanitation purposes as may arise from time to time.
   D.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands
within the unincorporated territory of Bingham County. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep, collect, haul, transport or dispose of solid waste in a
manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-
01, 1-8-2001)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
ABERDEEN LANDFILL: The County property at 2559 West 1800 South, Aberdeen,
Idaho, designated as a location within Bingham County where solid waste can
legally be deposited, collected, or transferred in accordance with Idaho Code
sections 39-7401 through 39-7420.
BOARD: The Board of Bingham County Commissioners.
COMPOSTING: The biological decomposition of organic waste under controlled
conditions.
CONTRACT: An exclusive contract or privilege granted by Bingham County to
collect, handle, dispose, recycle or recover solid waste.
COUNTY: The County of Bingham, a political subdivision of the State of Idaho.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste that may, by itself or in combination with other solid
waste, be infectious, explosive, poisonous, highly flammable, caustic, or
otherwise dangerous or injurious to human, plant, or animal life.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, institution, corporation or
entity, in plural as well as singular, including municipalities, a State or
Federal agency, or educational, fraternal or religious institution located
within Bingham County.
PREMISES: Any dwelling, flat, rooming house, apartment house, hospital, school,
hotel, restaurant, boarding house, place of business, manufacturing or business
establishment or any other building or structure, whether public or private.
RESIDENCE: The place of dwelling of one head of family and his or her
dependents. For purposes of this definition, each unit in a multi-unit complex,
such as an apartment building, is considered a separate residence. Temporary
overnight accommodations such as motels and hotels are not considered
residences.
SOLID WASTE: Shall include the following: all construction/demolition waste as
defined in Idaho Code section 39-7403(10); inoperative vehicle bodies, chassis,
or parts thereof; cardboard; wood scrap; shingles; concrete; inert waste as
defined in Idaho Code section 39-7403(23); liquids which by their nature are
noxious, odoriferous or are subject to the development of bacteria, virus or
other hazards to health including waste accumulations of animal or vegetable
matter including animal parts or carcasses, and including waste that attends
the preparation, use, serving, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meats, fish,
fowl, fruits, and vegetables. This term shall include all solid material that
is considered to be useless, unwanted, or discarded by the person in possession
of such material. Solids in gaseous or liquid wastes that are in the process of
treatment or reuse and naturally occurring rock and soil are not considered
solid waste. This term does not include sewage, human body waste or hazardous
wastes as determined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. This
term does not include machinery, implements, vehicles, or "agriculture waste"
as defined in Idaho Code section 39-7403(2).
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: Lands, sites, facilities, equipment and manpower
necessary for transportation, storage, treatment, processing, burial, reuse,
recycling, or other means necessary for the disposal of solid waste.
SOLID WASTE PERSONNEL: Any person holding a contract with Bingham County, or an
employee of Bingham County authorized to collect, handle, transport, or dispose
of solid waste, operate any solid waste facility or system for Bingham County.
STREET, ROAD OR ALLEY: A right-of-way which provides vehicular and pedestrian
access to adjacent properties, used by the public or subject to public travel.
TRANSFER STATION: The County property at 690 West Highway 26 designated as the
primary location within Bingham County where Municipal solid waste can legally
be deposited in accordance with Idaho Code sections 39-7401 through 39-7420.
WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: The Transfer Station and Aberdeen Landfill, and such other
sanitary landfills or other areas on public or private property within Bingham
County where solid waste may be disposed of, collected, or transferred, in
accordance with Idaho Code sections 39-7401 through 39-7420. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-
8-2001; amd. 2018 Code)
4-3-3: AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF COUNTY OFFICERS:
   A.   No person shall deny any enforcement officer, upon proper
identification, the reasonable right of ingress or egress to any premises for
the purpose of inspecting all places and containers where waste is accumulated
or kept.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the Director of the Solid Waste Management
Department (but not his agent), from time to time as may be necessary, to
report to the Board of County Commissioners his findings as to the
effectiveness of solid waste collections as provided herein and as to
violations by any person or business.
   C.   The Board shall designate the official waste disposal sites. The Board
shall also make such rules and regulations as may be needed from time to time
regarding the time and limits of collecting, disposing, reducing, and/or
recovering waste at the waste disposal sites. Such rules and regulations shall
be appropriately posted on signs designating the area and its use.
Recommendations as to the issuance or amendment of proper rules and regulations
shall be made to the Board by the Solid Waste Management Department. (Ord.
2001-01, 1-8-2001)
4-3-4: FEES:
   A.   Fees Set By Resolution: Annual fees and use fees, if established, shall
be set and administered by a separate resolution. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001; amd.
2018 Code)
   B.   Use Of Fees:
      1.   The Board of County Commissioners may set solid waste disposal fees,
by resolution, in order to fund solid waste disposal operations, which fees are
applicable to solid waste processing facilities in Bingham County, including,
but not limited to, the following locations:
         a.   Rattlesnake Landfill located at 1316 East Wolverine, Blackfoot,
Idaho;
         b.   Aberdeen Landfill located at 2559 West 1800 South, Aberdeen,
Idaho; and
         c.   Bingham County Central Transfer Station located at 690 West
Highway 26, Blackfoot, Idaho.
      2.   Any future fee changes shall be made by the Board of County
Commissioners by resolution.
      3.   No person, company, organization or agency shall fail to pay the
appropriate disposal fees as required by this subsection and as designated by
resolution by the Board of County Commissioners. All persons must pay the
requisite fee at the time of disposal, unless other arrangements have been
made.
      4.   All law enforcement agents, solid waste personnel, or other designee
of the Board of County Commissioners shall be the enforcement officers of this
subsection. (Ord. 2008-09, 9-19-2008)
      5.   A violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor and punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2008-09, 9-19-2008; amd. 2018 Code)
4-3-5: AMENDMENTS:
The Board may, upon its own motion or upon recommendation, make amendments to
this chapter. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001)
4-3-6: WASTE DISPOSAL SITES ESTABLISHED; CLOSURE OF LANDFILL SITES:
   A.   Official Disposal Sites: The Transfer Station and Aberdeen Landfill are
hereby established as official waste disposal sites within Bingham County where
solid waste must be disposed of, collected, or transferred, in accordance with
Idaho Code sections 39-7401 through 39-7420. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001; amd. 2018
Code)
   B.   Landfill Closures: All other landfill (and/or dumpster) sites formerly
used by the County shall be closed effective June 1, 2000, and thereafter no
solid waste of any kind or nature shall be deposited therein. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-
8-2001)
4-3-7: MAINTENANCE OF SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Depositing Or Allowing Solid Waste To Accumulate On Premises:
      1.   No person shall throw, deposit or permit to accumulate any solid
waste in any building or on any premises, improved or vacant, or any lot or
area either public or private, within unincorporated portions of Bingham
County, unless said premises is an approved waste disposal site operated by
Bingham County. Agricultural waste is exempt from the provisions of this
subsection.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow solid waste to
accumulate or be stored on or about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon
any adjacent street, alley or sidewalk owned, leased, used or occupied by such
person, unless said premises is an official waste disposal site operated by
Bingham County. It shall not be a violation of this chapter to store solid
waste in a garbage can, trash receptacle or other sanitary container for the
purpose of disposing such solid waste at an approved waste disposal site or in
any other lawful manner.
   B.   Removal Of Solid Waste From Vacated Premises: It shall be unlawful for
any person who has vacated a dwelling, storeroom, or any other building to fail
to remove all solid waste from such buildings and premises and also the grounds
appurtenant thereto or to fail to place the same in a sanitary condition within
forty eight (48) hours after said premises shall be vacated.
   C.   Compost Piles: Compost piles may be maintained for fertilization
purposes. Compost material used only for fertilization purposes may be
transported, kept and used, provided the same does not constitute a nuisance,
public or private, as defined by Idaho law. Compost piles using materials from
other sites must have the expressed approval of Southeast Idaho District Health
Department and the Bingham County Commissioners. Commercial composting
operations are subject to additional County zoning and District Health
Department regulations, including, but not limited to, conditional use permits
where applicable.
   D.   Unauthorized Accumulation Declared A Nuisance: Any unauthorized
accumulation or storage of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be
a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of
refuse within twenty four (24) hours after notice by a person acting on behalf
of Bingham County shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-01,
1-8-2001)
4-3-8: STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Solid Waste Containers Required:
      1.   Exception: It shall be the duty of every owner and occupant of any
place where solid waste is created or accumulated to, at all times, keep or
cause to be kept sanitary containers and, except as otherwise provided, to
deposit or cause to be deposited all solid waste therein. The aforesaid
containers shall be maintained in a secure condition so as to avoid offensive
odors, health hazards and the scattering or spilling of solid waste.
      2.   Agricultural waste is exempt from this section.
   B.   Hauling Solid Waste; Tarp Required: It shall be unlawful for any person
to transport solid waste over public streets, roads, alleys, or rights-of-way
without covering the waste with a tarp or otherwise securing it to the vehicle.
The purpose of this rule is to prevent scattering, blowing, or loss of solid
waste. A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) may be assessed at the waste disposal site
on all loads of solid waste which are not tarped or secured. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-
8-2001)
4-3-9: DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Waste Disposal At Designated Site Only: It shall be unlawful for any
person to dispose of solid waste anywhere in Bingham County except at a waste
disposal site.
   B.   Depositing On Public Ways Or Waterways: It shall be unlawful for any
person to throw, discard, or deposit any solid waste in or upon any road,
right-of-way, street, alley, sidewalk, upon vacant ground, or in or upon any
canal, irrigation ditch, drainage ditch, or other watercourse.
   C.   Use Of Disposal Site During Regular Business Hours; Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw away, dump, or discard
any solid waste in any waste disposal site at a time other than the regular
business hours and days in which such site is open to public dumping, except
with the express permission of the Manager of the waste disposal site.
      2.   In addition to the criminal penalties for violation of this section,
civil damages in an amount of three (3) times the actual damage, may be imposed
upon any person dumping or discarding solid waste at any waste disposal site,
outside of regular business hours, which damages shall be used to clean up the
waste and restore the land to its previous condition. Civil actions for such
violations shall be brought in Bingham County in the name of Bingham County and
the remainder of any damages collected after the costs of restoration shall be
used for maintenance and operation of the Bingham County Solid Waste Disposal
System and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001)
4-3-10: HAZARDOUS WASTES; PROHIBITED DISCHARGES OR DEPOSITS:
It shall be the duty of all users of the Solid Waste Disposal System to comply
with the applicable Federal and State laws governing the storage, transfer, and
disposal of hazardous waste. Violation of applicable State or Federal laws
relating to hazardous waste is also a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-01,
1-8-2001)
4-3-11: ENFORCEMENT, ABATEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement Officers Designated: All law enforcement officers, Solid
Waste Department personnel, or other designees of the Board of County
Commissioners shall be the enforcement officers of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-01,
1-8-2001)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply
with, or violates, any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter exists is
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Abatement By County; Landowner Liable For Costs: The County may abate
any violation of this chapter and bill the landowner for the costs incurred
after there has been a legal determination that a violation has occurred.
Landowners may be assessed a forty dollar ($40.00) processing fee plus any and
all removal costs. This section is not intended to replace or limit the power
of a court to order a defendant in a criminal action to pay cleanup and
abatement costs as restitution pursuant to Idaho Code sections 19-5304 and 19-
5305.
   D.   Notice Of Violation To Landowner; Time Limit For Removal: If solid
waste accumulates on private property in violation of this chapter, Bingham
County will give the landowner notice either in person or in writing to remove
the items within a reasonable time frame not to exceed ten (10) days. If the
item or items are not removed, Bingham County may hire a contractor or remove
the items with County personnel at the landowner's expense. Landowners may be
assessed a forty dollar ($40.00) processing fee plus any and all removal costs.
   E.   Abatement Of Risks: The cleanup costs contemplated in any of the
forgoing subsections include the consequential costs of abating any public
health concern, safety issue, or other risk associated with any violation of
this chapter. In abating these risks, the County may hire a contractor or use
County personnel to correct the problem and charge the costs to the violator.
   F.   Additional Remedies: In addition to the forgoing remedies and
penalties, other appropriate action may be taken pursuant to Idaho Code section
31-4406 or any other remedy at law or in equity to prevent unlawful disposal
and transportation of solid wastes, to recover damages, to restrain, correct,
or abate a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Synthetic Cannabinoids Or "Spice" Regulated
5-1-2: Reckless Discharge Of Weapons
5-1-3: Child Running Away Prohibited
5-1-4: Tobacco Or Electronic Cigarette Use Prohibited On School Grounds
5-1-1: SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS OR "SPICE" REGULATED:
   A.   Declaration Of Purpose: The Bingham County Board of County
Commissioners hereby finds and declares that the products and synthetic
substances described hereunder are commonly used as an alternative to
marijuana, that the synthetic substances are potentially dangerous to users and
that the long term effects are not yet known. The Commissioners declare that
the products which contain these synthetic substances often use a disclaimer
that the product is "not for human consumption" to avoid regulations requiring
the manufacturer to list the product's active ingredients and that most of
these products only list the ingredients of damiana leaf and mullein leaf
extract. The Commissioners further declare that the synthetic substances
described hereunder are not yet categorized as illegal controlled substances
under State or Federal law, and that it is proper and necessary for the Bingham
County Board of County Commissioners to exercise its authority to safeguard and
protect the public health and safety. Finally, the Commissioners declare that
it is within the policy power of Bingham County, granted by article XII,
section 2 of the Idaho State Constitution, to legislate the use, possession and
sale of synthetic cannabinoids and/or the substances known as "spice" in order
to preserve the public's health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, unless it is plainly
evident from the context that a different meaning is intended, certain terms
used herein are defined as follows:
    SPICE: Any herbal or plant material, incense or other substance, regardless
of the purpose for which it is marketed, or whether it is labeled as unsuitable
for human consumption, which contains one or more synthetic cannabinoids or
their analogs or homologues.
      1.   Spice includes products by whatever trade name that are treated,
sprayed, or saturated with one or more of the chemicals identified in the
definition of synthetic cannabinoids in this section. Some currently marketed
products containing synthetic cannabinoids identified in said definition
include, but are not limited to: K2, K3, Spice, Black Mamba, Mr. Smiley,
Vanilla Voodoo, Rage and Posh.
      2.   Spice includes any incense or alternative smoking blend product,
which contains damiana leaf and/or mullein leaf extract.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS: A synthetic substance with a chemical structure or
pharmacological activity similar to tetrahydrocannabinol, also known as THC,
which is the main psychoactive substance found in marijuana. For the purpose of
this section, synthetic cannabinoids are more specifically identified as
follows:
      1.   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole, a substance also known as JWH-018;
      2.   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole, a substance also known as JWH-073;
      3.   2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenol, a
substance also known as CP 47,497 and its homologues;
      4.   (Dexanabinol,(6aS,10aS)-9-(hydroxymethyl)- 6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)-6a,7,10,10a -tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol), a substance
also known as HU-211;
      5.   Any salt, isomer, analog or homologue of the above mentioned
chemicals;
      6.   Any other known synthetic cannabinoid; or
      7.   Any similar chemical substances which when inhaled, injected or
otherwise ingested are capable of causing a condition of intoxication,
inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or the dulling of the brain or nervous
system.
   C.   Possession, Use Or Sale:
      1.   Prohibition: Except as authorized by Idaho Code title 37, chapter
27, as amended, it is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally
use, possess, purchase, sell, attempt to sell, publicly display for sale,
distribute, or dispense synthetic cannabinoids, either in their chemical form
or as the product commonly known as spice. (Ord. 2010-08, 10-5-2010)
      2.   Penalty: Any person who is found guilty of, or who pleads guilty to,
a violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2010-08, 10-5-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution
for possession or use of synthetic cannabinoids under this section that said
possession or use is under and pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized in the State of Idaho to direct or
prescribe such act.
   E.   Subsequent State Action: If the Idaho State Legislature adopts a
statute enacting criminal penalties for prohibitions set forth in this section,
then upon the effective date of such State Statute, provisions of this section
that are addressed by the State Statute shall no longer be deemed effective.
Any violations of this section committed prior to the Idaho State legislature
enacting such a statute may be prosecuted. To the extent that the provisions
within this section are not preempted by State Statute, the provisions of this
section shall remain valid and in effect. (Ord. 2010-08, 10-5-2010)
5-1-2: RECKLESS DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    FIREARMS: Any device which will, or is designed to or may readily be
converted to, expel a projectile by the action of gunpowder or any other
explosive substance or by the action of compressed gas. The term shall include,
but is not limited to, any BB gun, pellet gun or paint ball gun. The term
"firearm" shall not include devices used to propel water.
   RECKLESS: To act carelessly and heedlessly or without due caution and
circumspection.
   WEAPON: Any firearm, cross bow and bolt, or bow and arrow.
   B.   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   No person shall discharge any weapon in a reckless manner.
      2.   No person shall discharge any weapon in the direction of any person,
vehicle, or dwelling or in any manner that any projectile discharged from the
weapon could reasonably strike any person, vehicle or dwelling. The provision
of this subsection shall not prohibit the discharge of a paint ball gun towards
another individual when that individual is participating in a consensual
competition, or game.
      3.   No person shall possess a loaded weapon while intoxicated or while
under the influence of any drug or controlled substance. (Ord. 2005-09, 5-24-
2005)
   C.   Penalty: A violation of this section is a misdemeanor and is punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-09, 5-24-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
5-1-3: CHILD RUNNING AWAY PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years, living or found in Bingham County, to be or to remain a person who has
run away from or is beyond the control of his parents, guardians, or other
legal custodian.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions or terms of this section
shall have committed a status offense, and shall be punished as provided in
Idaho Code title 20, chapter 5. (Ord. 96-7, 7-18-1996)
5-1-4: TOBACCO OR ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE USE PROHIBITED ON SCHOOL GROUNDS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for all persons to use or consume
tobacco products of any form, as defined in Idaho Code section 39-5702(14), or
electronic cigarettes, e-cigarettes, electronic cigar, electronic pipe, vape
product or any other similar product name or descriptor, as defined in Idaho
Code section 39-5702(6), upon any school grounds within the County, including,
but not limited to, the grounds of any public schools, private schools, charter
schools, religious schools, or other places where minors are regularly present
in any educational or athletic programs.
   B.   Penalty: A first violation of this section shall constitute an
infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty of a violation of this section,
who previously had been found guilty or has pled guilty to a violation under
the same section within the past five (5) calendar years, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the County Jail not exceeding thirty
(30) days, a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), or both such
fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 2017-07, 6-2-2017)
CHAPTER 2
UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS OR ENTRY INTO CERTAIN AREAS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Crime Scene Or Dangerous Areas
5-2-2: Impound Lots
5-2-1: CRIME SCENE OR DANGEROUS AREAS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CRIME SCENE AREA: 1. An area where a peace officer or law enforcement
official has designated boundaries by use of some physical object, including,
but not limited to, yellow tape, paint, barricades, or an emergency vehicle.
      2.   An area where a peace officer or law enforcement official has
verbally communicated a restriction regarding access to the area.
      3.   An area where a reasonable person would believe that a crime has
been committed or that physical evidence of a crime could be found.
   EMERGENCY SERVICE PROVIDER: Any emergency medical technician, fireman, and
similar public emergency personnel.
   PEACE OFFICER OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: The Sheriff and any deputy, peace
officer, police officer, Marshal, Constable, or Fire Department Arson
Investigator.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL: Any publicly elected or appointed official, employee or
agent of any City, County, State, or the Federal government who takes action to
safeguard the health and safety of the public in the course and scope of their
duties.
   RESTRICTED AREA: 1. An area which has been designated by a public official
as being prohibited to travel or entry by use of some physical object,
including, but not limited to, yellow tape, paint, barricades, or an emergency
vehicle.
      2.   An area where a public official has communicated, verbally or in
writing, a restriction regarding access to the area.
      3.   An area declared to be restricted to travel or entry by resolution
or declaration of the Bingham County Commissioners because travel or entry into
the property poses a risk of harm to person or property.
   B.   Crime Scene Area:
      1.   No person shall wilfully enter any crime scene area without first
obtaining express permission, whether written or oral, from a peace officer or
law enforcement official. Nor shall any person fail to comply with any
instruction given by a peace officer or law enforcement official while within
the boundaries of a crime scene area. For purposes of this subsection, only a
peace officer or law enforcement official directly involved in the
investigation or preservation of the crime scene area may grant permission to
enter a crime scene.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a peace officer
or law enforcement official while carrying out the duties and responsibilities
of their employment. Nor shall the provisions of this section apply to
emergency service personnel when engaged in the course of providing treatment
or providing fire suppression or prevention.
      3.   It shall not be a defense to this subsection that the person did not
know who designated the boundary of the crime scene area or whether such person
was a peace officer or law enforcement official. Nor shall it be a defense to
this subsection that no crime was committed within the crime scene area or that
no evidence was found in the crime scene area.
      4.   No person shall be prosecuted under the provisions of this
subsection if the person enters into a crime scene area prior to the arrival of
a peace officer or law enforcement official and the entry is necessary to: a)
protect or preserve property which is at immediate risk of being damaged or
destroyed; or b) look for or provide aid to any person or animal who may be or
are believed to be injured within the crime scene area.
   C.   Restricted Areas:
      1.   No person shall wilfully enter any restricted area without first
obtaining express permission, whether written or oral, from a public official.
Nor shall any person fail to comply with any instruction given by a public
official while within the boundaries of a restricted area. For purposes of this
subsection, only a public official who is vested with the duties or
responsibility for designating restricted areas or regulating travel or entry
into such areas may grant permission to enter a restricted area.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a public
official while carrying out the duties and responsibilities as a public
official.
      3.   It shall not be a defense to this subsection that the person did not
know who designated the boundary of the restricted area or whether any person
restricting travel or entry into the restricted area was a public official.
(Ord. 2005-07, 5-24-2005)
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-07, 5-24-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
5-2-2: IMPOUND LOTS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   As used in this section, "impound lot" shall be any area used by any
law enforcement agency or business for the purpose of storing or safekeeping
vehicles or other property, which area is enclosed by a fence and which has a
locked or lockable gate or entryway.
      2.   No person shall enter into any impound lot without the permission of
the owner or operator of such impound lot.
      3.   No person shall enter into any impound lot with the intent to commit
any crime therein.
      4.   It shall not be a defense to the provisions of this section that the
gate or entryway was open at the time of the violation or that the gate or
entryway was not locked. (Ord. 2005-08, 5-24-2005)
   B.   Penalty: A violation of this section is a misdemeanor and is punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-08, 5-24-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TOW COMPANIES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Driving Tow Truck To Scene; Call By Dispatch Required
5-3-3: Soliciting Tow Business At Scene Prohibited
5-3-4: Response To Certain Private Calls Prohibited
5-3-5: Certain Remuneration Or Consideration Prohibited
5-3-6: Dispatch To Call Towing Service
5-3-7: Tow Company Responsibilities
5-3-8: Approval Required; Yearly Inspections
5-3-9: Application; Inspections; Issuance
5-3-10: Random Inspections; Violations; Hearings
5-3-11: Tow Truck Specifications And Capabilities
5-3-12: Fees For Law Enforcement Towing
5-3-13: Tow Company Requirements And Operating Procedures
5-3-14: Use As Emergency Vehicle Prohibited
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms will have the following meanings:
BINGHAM COUNTY: That area which is within the jurisdiction of the Board of
Bingham County Commissioners.
BUSINESS DAY: Monday through Friday excluding declared holidays by the Board of
Bingham County Commissioners.
CRASH: Any occurrence in Bingham County which results in a wrecked or disabled
vehicle, and which results in either the injury or death of any person, or
damage to property of any one person in excess of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00), or both.
DISABLED VEHICLE: A vehicle which has been abandoned or rendered unsafe to be
driven as the result of some occurrence other than an accident including, but
not limited to: a) mechanical failures or breakdowns; b) fire; c) vandalism; d)
a vehicle which is in a safe driving condition, but the owner is not present,
able or permitted to drive; or e) any other occurrence which reasonably
necessitates removal of the vehicle by a tow truck.
DISPATCH: The person or persons in the Bingham County Sheriff's Office assigned
by the Sheriff to route law enforcement agency calls for tow truck service by
the use of tow truck rotation list.
LAW ENFORCEMENT TOW: Provision of a tow truck to the owner of a wrecked or
disabled vehicle by dispatch when a law enforcement agency has become involved.
OPERATOR: A tow truck owner, driver, or operator, that has passed a criminal
records check and a driver's license check.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title to a vehicle, or who has legal right of
possession of a vehicle, or legal right of control of a vehicle.
PERSON: An individual, assumed name entity, proprietorship, partnership, joint
venture, association, corporation, or other legal entity.
TOW COMPANY: A tow company that has completed the tow company packet and has
been approved by the Sheriff or his designee to perform tow company services
for Bingham County.
TOW TRUCK: A vehicle designed to be used primarily for removing wrecked or
disabled vehicles from any street, highway, interstate, or property.
TOW TRUCK ROTATION LIST: A list of qualified approved tow companies maintained
by dispatch and which is used to determine the priority of the tow truck to be
dispatched to the scene of a law enforcement tow.
WRECKED VEHICLE: A vehicle that has been damaged as the result of overturning
or colliding with another vehicle or object so as to reasonably necessitate
that the vehicle be removed by a tow truck. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-2: DRIVING TOW TRUCK TO SCENE; CALL BY DISPATCH REQUIRED:
To avoid reportable crashes not being reported, no operator may knowingly drive
a tow truck to the scene of any accident in Bingham County without notifying
dispatch. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-3: SOLICITING TOW BUSINESS AT SCENE PROHIBITED:
No person may solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly, at the scene of a
law enforcement tow in Bingham County, the business of towing, removing,
repairing, wrecking, storing, trading, or purchasing a vehicle. (Ord. 2015-02,
5-26-2015)
5-3-4: RESPONSE TO CERTAIN PRIVATE CALLS PROHIBITED:
A tow truck may respond to a private request for towing service to a disabled
vehicle not involved in an accident, or to a private request for other towing
services not requiring the involvement of a law enforcement agency; provided,
however, if, upon arrival on the scene, an operator discovers a crash is
involved, the operator shall immediately notify dispatch. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-
2015)
5-3-5: CERTAIN REMUNERATION OR CONSIDERATION PROHIBITED:
Tow companies are prohibited from soliciting or accepting any remuneration or
consideration of any type from any repair shop, garage or other repair facility
given for the purpose of influencing such tow company's decision as to where a
disabled or wrecked vehicle should be taken for repair. It shall be a
rebuttable presumption that any such remuneration or consideration was given
for the purpose of influencing said decision. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-6: DISPATCH TO CALL TOWING SERVICE:
If a law enforcement officer determines a tow truck is needed at the scene of a
law enforcement tow for a wrecked or disabled vehicle, dispatch shall call the
towing service indicated to the law enforcement officer by the express
preference of the owner; if the owner does not of his or her own initiative
expressly request a particular towing service, the next available emergency tow
company on the tow truck rotation list will be called. Dispatch shall indicate
to the tow company the color, year, make, body and general condition of the
vehicle to be towed. Based on the information provided, the tow company shall
provide all necessary towing equipment. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-7: TOW COMPANY RESPONSIBILITIES:
Tow truck companies approved to perform law enforcement towing are responsible
for wrecked and disabled vehicles and the contents therein, from the time of on
scene pick up until the vehicle is removed from the tow company's premises or
is otherwise released from the tow company's custody and control. Any damage or
loss to said vehicle or contents while in the custody and control of the tow
company is the sole responsibility of said tow company, and Bingham County
assumes no liability for any such loss or damage. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-8: APPROVAL REQUIRED; YEARLY INSPECTIONS:
   A.   No person may provide law enforcement towing inside Bingham County
without first being placed on the tow company rotation list. Upon approval, a
tow company along with its bona fide employees will engage in dispatched law
enforcement towing from the tow truck rotation list. Approved tow companies may
not subcontract with other towing agencies for the provision of law enforcement
towing services. Applications for law enforcement towing may be obtained at the
Bingham County Sheriff's Office during regular business hours. Incomplete
applications will not be considered for approval. After approval for the
Bingham County tow company rotation list, an annual wrecker inspection will be
performed. Tow service inspections shall be conducted by a member of the
Bingham County Sheriff's Office during June of each year.
   B.   Tow companies shall maintain a permanent and established place of
business within Bingham County, and shall promptly notify the Bingham County
Sheriff's Office of any change of address. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-9: APPLICATION; INSPECTIONS; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: An applicant wishing to participate in Bingham
County's law enforcement towing rotation shall lodge with the Bingham County
Sheriff a written application upon a form provided for that purpose, which must
be signed by the applicant or his authorized agent. The following information
shall be required in the application:
      1.   Owner's name, address to which all official correspondence may be
sent, telephone number and signature.
      2.   Company name, address and telephone number.
      3.   Number and types of tow trucks to be operated.
      4.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant wishes to participate
in the tow truck rotation list.
      5.   A copy of the applicant's public liability insurance policy.
      6.   A description of the applicant's impound yard and its location.
      7.   A list of all employees that will be operating and/or driving tow
vehicles.
      8.   A tow vehicle description to include year, make, model, license
plate number, VIN number and whether it is light or medium duty.
   B.   Inspections: Upon the lodging of the application, a Sheriff's Office
employee shall direct the applicant to appear for an inspection of the tow
truck(s). The Sheriff's Office employee shall conduct an inspection of the tow
truck(s) and the business premises of the applicant, as necessary, to determine
if each tow truck and emergency tow company complies with this chapter.
   C.   Action On Application: The Sheriff may, at any time, in his discretion,
require additional information from an applicant to clarify items on the
application. Failure to cooperate with the request for additional information
may result in the denial of application.
   D.   Issuance: The Sheriff shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of an
application for a law enforcement towing privilege, either approve or deny said
application. If the Sheriff finds that the emergency tow company meets the
requirements of this chapter, he will approve the application. If the Sheriff
finds that the emergency tow company does not meet the requirements of this
chapter, he may deny the application. If at any time an emergency tow company
violates the requirements of this chapter, the company may be suspended in
accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-10: RANDOM INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; HEARINGS:
   A.   Inspections: Any Bingham County Sheriff's Deputy is authorized to
conduct random equipment and safety inspections of any tow truck company
approved to conduct law enforcement tows.
   B.   Violations And Temporary Suspensions: The following violations shall
result in a written warning by the Sheriff or his designee. Any repeat(s) of
the same violation shall result in an immediate temporary suspension from the
tow truck rotation list for a period not to exceed three (3) days. More than
three (3) repeats of the same violation shall result in the imposition of a
suspension of more than three (3) days of the tow company's law enforcement tow
privileges in accordance with subsection C of this section:
      1.   Failure to notify dispatch that tow company's on scene arrival time
will exceed thirty (30) minutes.
      2.   Failure to have the required equipment for each operating tow truck
and to have such equipment in good operating condition.
      3.   Use of magnetic stripping/signage on tow trucks.
      4.   Charging tow customers in excess of the tow rates established by the
Bingham County Board of Commissioners for law enforcement tows.
      5.   Subcontracting law enforcement tows through other tow companies,
licensed or unlicensed.
   C.   Suspensions And Revocations: If a Sheriff's Office employee finds that
any of the following violations have been committed, the violation(s) will be
reported to the Sheriff or his designee. The Sheriff or his designee shall
issue an immediate twenty four (24) hour suspension of the tow company's law
enforcement tow privileges, and may invoke suspension of said tow company for
more than three (3) days:
      1.   Failure to respond to a dispatch request for a law enforcement tow
more than two (2) times in any calendar month.
      2.   Driving a tow truck to the scene of an accident without having been
requested to the scene by dispatch, as described by sections
5-3-2,
5-3-3 and
5-3-4 of this chapter.
      3.   The solicitation of tow truck business by any operator, employee, or
agent of the tow company at the scene of a law enforcement tow.
      4.   The failure to report a crash to dispatch for which a law
enforcement tow is required.
      5.   The solicitation or acceptance of any remuneration or consideration
of any type by any tow company, employee or agent of a tow company, from any
garage, or repair shop or facility, for the purpose of influencing such tow
company's decision as to where a disabled or wrecked vehicle should be taken
for repair.
      6.   Allowing the lapse or cancellation of the tow business insurance
required by this chapter.
   D.   Notice Of Intent: If within five (5) days of the Sheriff or his
designee finding good cause that a violation of subsection C of this section
has occurred, the Sheriff shall issue a notice of intent to suspend or revoke a
tow company's law enforcement towing privileges. Said notice shall provide a
general description of the alleged violation(s) and the date(s) of the alleged
violations. Depending on the nature and extent of the violation(s), the
Sheriff, in his sole discretion, may permit said tow company to resume law
enforcement towing pending any hearing on the matter.
   E.   Right To Hearing: A tow company shall have the right to a hearing prior
to the revocation or suspension of more than three (3) days of its law
enforcement towing privileges, in accordance with the procedures set forth in
subsection F of this section. If the tow company does not request a hearing, or
does not follow the procedures for requesting a hearing, said decision to
suspend or revoke the law enforcement towing privileges shall be final, and
shall be effective fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice of intent. Any
suspension shall be for a length of time as determined by the Sheriff.
   F.   Hearing Procedures: A tow company may request a hearing before the
Sheriff or his designee prior to the suspension for more than three (3) days or
revocation of law enforcement towing privileges, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section.
      1.   A tow company desiring such a hearing shall, within fifteen (15)
days of the date of the notice of intent to suspend or revoke law enforcement
towing privileges, file a written request for hearing with the Bingham County
Sheriff, together with a statement setting forth the factual basis and reasons
for said tow company's appeal of the decision.
      2.   The Sheriff or his designee shall conduct an informal public hearing
within thirty (30) days after a request for hearing has been filed. The tow
company and the Sheriff may be represented by an attorney. The tow company will
be afforded the opportunity to present evidence and testimony. The tow company
shall have no right to cross examine or confront witnesses, except in the
discretion of the Sheriff, nor shall the Idaho Rules of Evidence apply to such
hearings. In the Sheriff's discretion, the record of any such hearing may be
held open for a period of time, not to exceed seven (7) days, for the receipt
of additional evidence.
      3.   The Sheriff or his designee shall issue a written decision within
ten (10) days after the hearing. A copy of the decision shall be mailed or made
available to all interested parties. A record of said hearing and decision
shall remain in the custody of the Sheriff. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-11: TOW TRUCK SPECIFICATIONS AND CAPABILITIES:
   A.   Compliance: Each emergency tow company shall comply with all safety
provisions, rules and regulations required to be observed by motor carriers,
and, in addition thereto, shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Equipment: Each tow truck shall be equipped with only those winches and
booms that have been produced and constructed by a manufacturer of such
equipment that regularly produces winches and tow equipment of guaranteed
quality and be used with the size tow truck for the class for which the
equipment is designed. All related equipment shall be commensurate with the
total rating of booms or other towing devices. A winch or boom will not be
prohibited by this chapter if the owner submits to the Bingham County Sheriff a
verified statement from a reputable testing laboratory regularly engaged in the
testing of such equipment or similar equipment certifying that the capacity of
the winch or boom is not less than that mandated for the class for which the
equipment will be used. All costs of such testing and certification shall be at
the expense of the emergency tow company.
      1.   Each tow truck and all of its equipment shall be maintained in a
safe and good working order at all times.
      2.   Each tow truck shall be permanently painted and lettered with
company name and telephone number, on both sides of the tow truck, within a
reasonable time after purchase. No magnetic signs may be used in lieu of the
company name and phone number.
   C.   Requirements To Receive Dispatch Calls: Those emergency tow companies
wishing to receive dispatch calls for a heavy duty tow truck must do so through
other avenues. Bingham County does not maintain a heavy duty tow truck rotation
list. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-12: FEES FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT TOWING:
Fees for services provided by emergency tow companies pursuant to this chapter
shall be set by resolution of the Board of Bingham County Commissioners. (Ord.
2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-13: TOW COMPANY REQUIREMENTS AND OPERATING PROCEDURES:
Tow companies approved to perform law enforcement tows must:
   A.   Maintain twenty four (24) hour towing services, be available seven (7)
days per week. A maximum of two (2) phone numbers will be called. In the event
a tow company is out of service for any reason, a phone call to dispatch
advising of the no call out status is required. A second phone call is also
required advising of back in service status. This will avoid the consequences
outlined in subsection 5-3-10C1 of this chapter.
   B.   Not refuse to provide a law enforcement tow more than two (2) times in
any calendar month.
   C.   Arrive at the accident within a reasonable time after having been
notified to do so by dispatch. Such response time shall not exceed thirty (30)
minutes. To the extent the tow company is unable to respond within thirty (30)
minutes, the tow company must notify dispatch of its estimated arrival time.
   D.   Maintain its own separate locked, lighted and secured impound lot,
bordered by a fence not less than six feet (6') in height; provided, further
that said lot shall be insured for fire, theft, and vandalism of the vehicles
stored therein and further, shall be open for business not less than from nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. during business days. An agent
of the tow company must be contactable during the above mentioned days and
hours.
   E.   The Bingham County Sheriff's Office shall conduct an inventory of all
items contained in or on an impounded vehicle to be towed. The form will be
provided by the Bingham County Sheriff's Office and completed by a Bingham
County Deputy. Upon completion of the inventory, the Deputy will have the on
scene tow company driver/operator sign the inventory sheet and provide the
driver/operator with his copy. All items inventoried, which are not taken to
Sheriff's property, shall remain in the custody and control of the tow company
until released to the owner.
   F.   When authorized by the law enforcement agency, the wrecked or disabled
vehicle shall be delivered to a location of the owner's choice or the tow
company's impound lot. An itemized statement of charges shall be provided to
the vehicle owner upon request.
   G.   Report to the Bingham County Sheriff's Office immediately all changes
in tow trucks and equipment used in the tow company's law enforcement towing
service and make all additional vehicles and equipment available for inspection
by a Sheriff's Office designee. A tow truck which has not been approved by the
inspection process shall not be used in any law enforcement tows.
   H.   Before leaving the site of an accident, the tow company will completely
remove all resulting wreckage or debris, including all broken glass.
   I.   Maintain communications on a twenty four (24) hour basis with the
company's tow trucks.
   J.   Meet the following insurance requirements:
      1.   At their sole expense, tow companies shall procure and maintain in
full force and effect, insurance written by an insurance company or companies
with Best's rating(s), of A VIII or better. All insurance companies must be
authorized to do business in the State of Idaho. By requiring insurance herein,
Bingham County does not represent that coverage and/or limits are necessarily
adequate to protect the tow company, and such coverage and/or limits shall not
be deemed as a limitation on the tow company's liability under the indemnities
granted to Bingham County.
      2.   Certificates of insurance evidencing the coverages required herein
shall be provided to Bingham County prior to performing any towing services for
Bingham County. All certificates must be signed by an authorized representative
of the tow company's insurance carrier and must state that the issuing company,
its agents, or representatives will provide Bingham County thirty (30) days'
written notice prior to any policies being canceled. Renewal certificates must
be provided to Bingham County within thirty (30) days after the effective date
of the renewal.
      3.   Certificates shall be mailed to:
        Bingham County Risk Management
        501 N. Maple
        Blackfoot, ID 83221
      4.   Certificates must evidence the following minimum coverages:
         a.   Workers' compensation insurance meeting the statutory
requirements of the State of Idaho.
         b.   Employers' liability insurance providing limits of liability in
the following amount: seven hundred fifty thousand dollar ($750,000.00) minimum
vehicle liability, and on hook.
         c.   Garage liability insurance providing limits of liability in the
following amounts:
            (1)   Fifty thousand dollar ($50,000.00) minimum garage keeper's
coverage per incident.
            (2)   The garage liability policy shall be written on a standard
ISO policy form, or an equivalent form, providing coverage for liability
arising from garage operations including premises, operations, completed
operations, personal injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an
insured contract (including tort liability of another assumed in a contract).
Auto coverage must show Symbols 27, 28, and 29 or a separate business
automobile liability policy must be purchased.
            (3)   Alternatively, tow companies may produce a certificate of
insurance evidencing commercial general liability insurance providing limits of
liability in the following amounts:
 
General aggregate                         $2,000,000.00
Product/completed operations aggregate    $2,000,000.00 aggregate
Personal and advertising injury liability $1,000,000.00 injury liability
Per occurrence                            $1,000,000.00
Fire legal liability                      $50,000.00
 
            (4)   The commercial general liability (CGL) insurance policy shall
be written on an "occurrence" form and shall cover liability arising from
premises, operations, independent contractors, products, completed operations,
personal injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured
contract (including tort liability of another assumed in a contract).
         d.   Business automobile liability insurance (required only if Symbols
27, 28, and 29 are not shown for garage liability) providing bodily injury and
property damage liability coverage for not less than seven hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($750,000.00) each accident limit. Business automobile
liability insurance shall be written on a standard ISO policy form, or an
equivalent form, providing coverage for liability arising out of owned, hired,
or nonowned vehicles in connection with this agreement.
         e.   Garage keeper's liability insurance providing legal liability
coverage, including comprehensive and collision, of not less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per location for customers' autos or auto
equipment while the tow company is attending, servicing, repairing, parking or
storing the customer's auto or auto equipment.
         f.   On hook/cargo insurance providing coverage for customers' autos
while being towed or transported by the tow company with limits in the
following amount: light or medium duty trucks, fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00).
      5.   Bingham County and its elected officials, agents, employees,
successors and assigns shall be named as additional insureds under all policies
except workers' compensation and employers' liability.
   K.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as obligating the emergency
tow company to transport a disabled or wrecked vehicle when weather or road
conditions make it impractical, impossible or dangerous to the operator. (Ord.
2015-02, 5-26-2015)
5-3-14: USE AS EMERGENCY VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit operation of a tow truck
as an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 2015-02, 5-26-2015)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN FIRE BAN AND BURN NOTIFICATION
SECTION:
5-4-1: Short Title And Purpose
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Open Fire Ban
5-4-4: Effective Date
5-4-5: Open Fires Subject To State And Federal Regulations
5-4-6: Open Burning Notification System
5-4-7: Administration And Enforcement
5-4-8: Penalties
5-4-9: Storage Of Combustible Material
5-4-10: Conflicts With State And Federal Regulations
5-4-11: Liability
5-4-12: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
5-4-13: Discharge, Sale, And Use Of Fireworks
5-4-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the open fire Ban and Burn
Notification Ordinance. The purpose of this chapter is to ban open fires, as
defined herein, and to implement an open burning notification system, in all
areas of the County as well as within Fire Protection Districts to lessen the
danger fires in those areas. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
other words and phrases not defined in this chapter shall be given their
ordinary, commonly understood and accepted meanings:
 
                                     That definition set forth in the
                                     Implementation Resolution, as hereafter
                                     defined. In the event the Implementation
                                     Resolution does not contain a definition
                                     of open fire, then for all purposes
                                     under the Ordinance or the
                                     Implementation Resolution, an open fire
                                     shall be: any and all outdoor fires,
                                     including but not limited to, campfires,
                                     warming fires, all explosives, firing of
                                     model rockets, discharge of tracer
OPEN FIRE:                           bullets, exploding targets, welding or
                                     operating an acetylene or other torch
                                     with open flame (other than in an area
                                     cleared of all flammable materials and
                                     with adequate firefighting equipment
                                     immediately available and on hand), the
                                     burning of trash and debris and open
                                     burning which is offensive or
                                     objectionable because of smoke or odor
                                     emissions or when atmospheric conditions
                                     or local circumstances make such fires
                                     hazardous.
                                     (i) commercial fireworks within city
                                     limits; (ii) wood burning stoves and
                                     fireplaces located within an enclosed
                                     building(s); (iii) roadside emergency
                                     flares used for vehicle safety in a safe
                                     and prudent manner with regard to
                                     wildfire threat; (iv) recreational
                                     fires, as defined in the International
                                     Fire Code, shall be permitted so long as
                                     they are no closer than 25 feet from any
                                     structure and the fuel to be burned is
OPEN FIRE shall not include or apply no more than three feet in diameter and
to:                                  no higher than 2 feet in height and
                                     contained within a steel or concrete
                                     fire ring, barbecue grills located on
                                     personal residences when used in a safe
                                     and prudent manner with regard to
                                     wildfire threat; (v) the prescribed
                                     burning of fence rows, irrigation
                                     ditches, fields, and farmland when done
                                     in a safe and prudent manner with
                                     adequate firefighting equipment
                                     immediately available and on hand, with
                                     the greatest regard and consideration to
                                     the wildfire risks;
                                     All public (to the greatest extent
ALL AREAS OF THE COUNTY AS WELL AS   allowed by law) and private lands
WITHIN FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS:    located in the County which are outside
                                     the city limits of any city within the
                                     County. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
 
5-4-3: OPEN FIRE BAN:
When this chapter is implemented by one or more resolutions of the Board in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter (“Implementation Resolution”)
open fires of every kind and type are prohibited on all Areas of the County and
Fire Protection Districts which are outside the city limits of any city within
the County to the greatest extent permitted by law, unless such prohibition is
specifically limited by the terms of the Implementation Resolution. An open
fire ban shall be in effect in the County, when an open fire ban is put in
place by the Implementation Resolution and it shall be unlawful and a
misdemeanor for any person to violate the terms of the open fire ban in all
Areas of the County and Fire Protection Districts which are outside the city
limits of any city within the County during the time periods set forth in the
Implementation Resolution. The Implementation Resolution may modify the
definition of open fire, Areas of the County or may limit burn restrictions to
just certain areas of the County or any other further limitations as set forth
in the Implementation Resolution. The Board shall consider an open fire ban on
the recommendation of the Fire Districts.
The open fire ban authorized to be imposed by the terms of this chapter shall
be implemented by:
   A.   Adoption of the Implementation Resolution by the Board declaring that
conditions and circumstances within the County necessitate the imposition of an
open fire ban to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public. Such
resolution shall specifically state that the resolution is intended to
implement the open fire ban authorized by this chapter; and
   B.   That established evaluation criteria then currently in use by federal,
state and local Fire suppression/management agencies for monitoring fuel
moistures, fire dangers class, then current impacts on suppression resources,
then current fire cause types, weather forecasts and other predictive fire
danger may be considered by the Board; and
   C.   The County may consider and, where deemed appropriate by the Board,
undertake efforts to advertise and publicize each open fire ban implemented by
resolution accordance with this chapter. Such efforts may include, but are not
limited to, any one or more of the following: recording of the resolution in
the records of the County Clerk/Recorder, posting of the resolution on the
County website, publication of the resolution and notices in one or more
newspapers and publications circulated within the County, the erection of signs
referring to the open fire ban along public thoroughfares and/or in public
places within the County, and/or notification sent to fire districts, the Idaho
State Department of Lands, the United States Forest Service, the Bureau of Land
Management, municipalities and other public agencies informing such agencies of
the County open fire ban. The failure to undertake any such additional efforts
to advertise and publicize the open fire ban shall not invalidate or preclude
the enforcement of this chapter as implemented by any such resolution. (Ord
2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
An open fire ban imposed and implemented in accordance with this chapter shall
commence upon the date set forth in the resolution and shall remain in effect
until the date identified in such resolution, if any, or the date of repeal of
the resolution by a further resolution of the Board. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-5: OPEN FIRES SUBJECT TO STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
All burning and open fires in the County shall at all times be subject to any
and all state and federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to
air quality and health and safety concerns and shall comply with the state
Adopted International Fire Code. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-6: OPEN BURNING NOTIFICATION SYSTEM:
The separate Fire Districts and Fire Chiefs of Bingham County will implement
and manage an “Open Burning Notification System” for the purpose of permitting
individuals to safely burn slash, slash piles, forest management slash, grasses
and debris based on the location where the burning will take place. In
collaboration with the different Fire Districts, the open burning Notification
system will provide private property owners education and required procedures
for safe slash and debris burning. Property owners shall either notify the fire
districts of plans to burn either using the online form, where available, or by
calling dispatch. The open burning permit system also includes the following
additional provisions:
   A.   No person shall conduct any open fire or open burning within all Areas
of the County and Fire Protection Districts which are outside the city limits
of any city within the County without notifying the Fire District of the area
of any proposed open fire and be granted permission to burn at a proscribed
hour, and in all other respects complying with the open burning notification
system, requirements, and the open burning permit, including but not limited to
calling the County Dispatch and where required the State of Idaho, Department
of Lands.
   B.   The Fire Chief of each Fire District may, in authorizing a burn after
notification may require the person who will be conducting the burn to notify
contiguous landowners, of the date, time and location of any burning pursuant
to an open burning notification permit.
   C.   Broadcast burns conducted within federal and state guidelines that have
a written prescribed fire plan and agricultural burns are hereby exempted from
the open burning permit system.
   D.   Nothing in the County open burning permit system infringes upon or
otherwise affects the ability of agricultural producers to conduct burning on
their property.
   E.   Provisions or procedures of the open burning notification permit system
may be amended by the Fire Districts, with the prior approval of the Board, by
motion or resolution. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The Sheriff and the Sheriff’s officers, deputies, designees and agents are
authorized by the Board to enforce the prohibition of open fires implemented by
such resolution(s) adopted as provided in this chapter. The separate Fire
Districts shall be responsible for the administration of this chapter and the
implementation and administration of the open burning notification system. All
inquiries regarding the current status of open fire restrictions and bans in
the County should be directed to the Fire District of the area in which burning
will take place. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-8: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise indicated herein, any person who pleads guilty or is found
guilty of violating any provision herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of Bingham County Code.
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter that the fine for repeated or multiple
violations of an open fire ban implemented as provided herein, or of the burn
permit system, by any one person, shall be significantly increased.
   B.   The Sheriff shall have the authority to take a violator or violators
into custody for violations of this chapter. Criminal prosecution may be
brought against a violator under state statutes or under the penalty assessment
procedure provided herein.
   C.   Each violation of this chapter shall be deemed separate and distinct
from any other violation of this chapter or of any federal, state, or local
law, rule, order or regulation, and each day during which violation of this
chapter continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   D.   When a person is issued a summons and complaint for a violation of this
chapter, the issuing officer shall have the authority, but not be limited to,
to issue a penalty assessment notice pursuant to and authorized by this chapter
to the person. The penalty assessment notice shall be a summons and complaint,
shall identify the alleged offender, shall specify the offense and applicable
fine and shall require that the alleged offender pay the fine or appear to
answer the charge at a specified time and place. A duplicate copy shall be sent
to the Clerk of the County Court. If the person given a penalty assessment
notice chooses to acknowledge guilt, he/she may pay the specified fine in
person or by mail at the place and within the time specified in the notice. If
he/she chooses not to acknowledge his/her guilt, he/she shall appear as
required in the notice. Upon trial, if the alleged offender is found guilty,
the fine imposed shall be that specified in the notice for the offense of which
he/she was found guilty. Customary court costs may be assessed again him/her in
addition to the fine.
   E.   Any person who pleads guilty to or is found guilty of a violation of
Section
5-4-8 of this chapter, who previously has pled guilty to or has been found
guilty of two (2) or more violations under the same ordinance within the past
five (5) years, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in
a County Jail not exceeding six (6) months or by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both. Each violation of any provision of
this chapter is punishable as follows:
 
First Violation                 A fine of a minimum of one hundred dollars
                                ($100.00)
Second Violation                A fine of a minimum of five hundred dollars
                                ($500.00)
Third and subsequent violations A fine of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) for
                                each subsequent violation
 
   F.   Additionally for repeat violators in addition to the above listed
fines, the violators may be imprisoned in jail of up to six (6) months. (Ord
2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-9: STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL:
No dry vegetation, Christmas trees, or any other combustible material may be
stored, displayed, sold or otherwise kept within twenty-five (25) feet of any
structure except for stacked firewood. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-10: CONFLICTS WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
In the event the State of Idaho (the “State”), the Bureau of Land Management
(“BLM”) or the United States Forest Service (“Forest Service”) have issued
burning regulations pertaining to public lands within their respective
jurisdictions in the County, in conflict with this chapter, strictest of such
rules, regulations of the State, BLM or the Forest Service shall control. (Ord
2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-11: LIABILITY:
Any person who willfully or negligently is responsible for the starting or
permitting an open fire in violation of this chapter or any violation of the
current International Fire Code shall be liable for the costs incurred by
federal, state or local agencies or their authorized representatives in
controlling or extinguishing the same, as well as damages to life and property
arising from such a violation of this chapter. The amount of such costs shall
be recovered by a civil action prosecuted in the name of the County, those
persons damaged or the agency seeking reimbursement. Civil liability provided
herein shall be exclusive of, and in addition to, any criminal penalties
provided herein. These costs shall be calculated using all current federal
overtime and FEMA rates. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-12: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
Where any provision of this chapter conflicts with any other provision of this
chapter, or any other law or ordinance or the implementing resolution, the more
stringent requirement, regulation, restriction or imitation shall apply.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is the intent of the Board that this chapter
completely embody all rules, regulations and requirements pertaining to the
burn bans for open fires within all Areas of the County and Fire Protection
Districts which are outside the city limits of any city within the County.
Therefore, all prior resolutions and ordinances, heretofore adopted by the
Board in relation to the matters contained herein, are hereby declared null,
void and of no effect as of and for matters occurring after the effective date
of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
5-4-13: DISCHARGE, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS:
The different fire districts shall govern the discharge, sale or use of
fireworks according to Idaho Code 31-1417 and Idaho Code Title 39, Chapter 26.
Bingham County Ordinance titled Fireworks Sale and Use as found Title 5,
Chapter 4 is hereby declared null, void and of no effect and hereby replaced
with this chapter. (Ord 2020-4, 7-8-2020)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Declaration Of Purpose
5-5A-2: Definitions
5-5A-3: License Required
5-5A-4: Impoundment of Dogs; Fees
5-5A-5: Commercial And Non-Commercial Kennel License
5-5A-6: Rabies
5-5A-7: Offenses Subject To Elevated Penalties
5-5A-8: Penalties for Section 5-5A-7 Offenses
5-5A-9: All Other Offenses
5-5A-10: Procedures Upon Attack
5-5A-11: Destruction Of Injured Dogs
5-5A-12: Violation
5-5A-13: Law Enforcement
5-5A-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The Bingham County Board of County Commissioners, located in Bingham County,
Idaho, hereby find and declare that dogs running at large and dogs creating
nuisances within the County constitute an immediate danger to the health,
safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the county. We further declare that
non-sterilized dogs contribute more severely to the problem of dogs running at
large and result in increased problems regarding impoundment and disposal than
do sterilized dogs, thereby justifying different treatment, impoundment
procedures, and fees. We further declare that keeping four or more dogs at a
single premise contributes to the problems of dogs running at large and of
nuisances caused by dogs thereby justifying different treatment of owners of
four or more dogs at a single premise. We declare that an increased penalty is
needed for repeat offenders of certain dog related offenses. Additionally, we
declare that it is within the policy power of the County, granted by Article
XII, Section 2 of the Idaho State Constitution, to legislate the control,
licensing, kenneling, and impoundment of dogs in order to preserve the public’s
health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Article, unless it is plainly evident from the context
that a different meaning is intended, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
ABANDONMENT: Any dog within the county, the ownership of which cannot be ascertained, and
             which has remained unclaimed for at least five (5) calendar days.
             Any dog off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor, or keeper
AT LARGE:    thereof, and not under the immediate care and control of its owner, possessor
             or keeper or the owner’s agent, servant, or member of his family.
             Any lot, premises, or portion thereof on which four (4) or more dogs, which
             are six (6) or more months of age, are maintained, possessed, boarded or bred,
             unless such dogs are used for livestock or hunting purposes.
DOG KENNEL:  1.   Commercial Kennel shall mean a kennel whereby the owner shall derive
             moneys from the boarding, breeding, training, grooming, or handling of dogs.
             2.   Non-Commercial Kennel or Private Kennel shall mean any kennel which is
             not a commercial kennel as defined above.
DOG OF
LICENSING    Any dog that has attained the age of six (6) months.
AGE:
             A fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
ENCLOSURE:   which is suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures
             which may be taken by the owner or keeper of the dog. The enclosure shall be
             designed in order to prevent the animal from escaping.
             All fine amounts referenced herein are considered to be fine amounts only and
FINE:        shall be exclusive of any additional court costs, administrative surcharges,
             or other fees imposed by the court.
IDENTIFIED   A dog wearing a physical identification tag on its collar that provides the
DOG:         owner’s current contact information
IMPOUND OR   The receipt of a dog into the custody of the Bingham County Sheriff’s
IMPOUNDMENT: Department, the Animal Control Officer, the Poundmaster, the City Policy
             Department, or any authorized agent or representative thereof.
OWNER:       When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, shall mean any person owning,
             keeping, or harboring one or more dogs.
             An animal shelter, lot, premises or building maintained by Bingham County, or
POUND:       by Bingham County jointly with any City within Bingham County, for the
             confinement and care of dogs seized either under the provisions of this
             Article or otherwise.
SEVERE       Any physical injury to a human being that results in muscle tears or
INJURY:      disfiguring lacerations or requires multiple sutures or corrective or cosmetic
             surgery.
UNLICENSED   A dog for which a license has not been issued, or if a license has been issued
DOG:         is not current, or to which the tag provided for in this ordinance is not
             attached.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog which, when unprovoked, aggressively inflicts severe injury on or
             kills a human being. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
 
5-5A-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for an owner to keep or harbor any dog six (6) months of
age or more within Bingham County limits without paying a license fee as herein
provided. For purposes of this ordinance, a valid dog license issued by a city
within the limits of Bingham County shall constitute compliance with this
section.
Dogs used as guides for blind persons and commonly known as “seeing eye” dogs
shall be licensed and registered as other dogs herein provided for, except that
the owner or keeper of such dog shall not be required to pay any fee therefore.
   A.   License Fee: The owner keeping, harboring or having charge of any dog
of licensing age within the County shall, by June 30th of each year, pay to the
County Sheriff the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each non-sterilized dog or
five dollars ($5.00) for each sterilized dog. Upon payment of said fee, it
shall be the duty of the Sheriff to issue a license to said person bearing the
same number as the number to be worn on the collar of the dog for the current
year. The license shall give the date of issuance, the date of expiration, the
amount paid, the name and address of the person to whom the license is being
issued, and the breed, name, and sex of the dog. The Sheriff shall furnish with
each license a metal tag that shall be stamped with the number to correspond
with the number of the license and the year for which it is issued.
   B.   Certificate of Sterilization: A certificate of spay or neuter issued by
a veterinarian or any humane society shall be presented at the time of license
application to secure the reduced license rate.
   C.   Dogs Brought Into County: In case a dog is brought within the County
limits after June 1 of that year the owner shall have thirty (30) days to apply
for and receive a license as herein required; otherwise said license is
required by June 30th of that year. Provided, however, that the provisions of
this Section shall not apply to any owner visiting in the County for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days, or to the owner possessing a dog currently
licensed and bearing the license issued by another licensing authority.
   D.   Tags To Be Placed On Collar: The metal tags as described in division A.
of this section shall be attached to the collar of the dog, which the owner
shall provide and which shall be placed and kept at all times upon the neck of
the dog so licensed. If the metal tag is lost, a duplicate tag shall be
obtained by making application to the Sheriff, who shall issue such duplicate
tag upon payment by the applicant of a one dollar ($1.00) fee. All metal tags
shall be nontransferable. While confined within a kennel and while
participating in authorized dog shows and exhibitions, the collar with metal
license attached need not be placed upon the neck of the dog.
   E.   Record of License: The Sheriff shall keep a suitable record of the
license issued under the provisions of this Article and shall record all of the
facts required to be stated in the license. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-4: IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS; FEES:
All dogs found running at large in Bingham County are declared to be a public
nuisance and it shall be the duty of the County Sheriff or the Animal Control
Officer to take possession of and impound dogs running at large. Terms of the
impoundment, redemption, and disposal of dogs shall be as follows:
   A.   Unlicensed Dogs: All dogs not licensed or not identified by tags found
running at large shall be retained in the pound for a minimum of five (5) days,
excluding weekends and holidays. The five (5) day period shall commence from
the date the dog is impounded. At any time during said five (5) day period, the
owner of the dog may redeem said dog, if not held for rabies check or attack,
by first procuring a license for the dog and paying an impound fee of thirty
dollars ($30.00) plus a boarding fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day for each
day of impoundment. The daily impoundment fee shall commence to run at noon on
the day following the day the owner is notified.
   B.   Identified and Unidentified Dogs: All identified and unidentified dogs
found running at large shall be retained in the Pound for a minimum of five (5)
days, excluding weekends and holidays. The five (5) day period shall commence
from the date the dog is impounded. A reasonable effort will be made to contact
the owner of an identified dog by telephone, in writing, or in person of the
impoundment. At any time during the stated five (5) day period, the owner may
redeem said dog, if not held for rabies check or attack, by paying an impound
fee to the Animal Control Officer of thirty dollars ($30.00) plus a boarding
fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day for each day of impoundment. The five (5)
day period shall commence to run at noon on the day following the day the owner
is notified.
   C.   Unclaimed Dogs: Any dog unclaimed or not redeemed within the periods of
time as herein stated may be adopted by a humane society or sold by the Animal
Control Officer to any person for the best price obtainable, provided that the
price is equal to or exceeds the impoundment fees herein. If the dog remains
unclaimed or unredeemed, and is not adopted by a humane society within the time
periods provided for in this Article, the Bingham County Sheriff, Animal
Control Officer, or anyone operating as their agent, may destroy the dog.
   D.   Disposal of Dogs: In the case any dog is destroyed as provided in
Section 5.2 of this Article, the dog shall be destroyed and the carcass
disposed of in a humane and lawful manner.
   E.   Owner Drop-off: When any owner brings his or her dog to the Bingham
County Sheriff or Animal Control Officer for impoundment, the owner shall be
assessed a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) per dog or forty dollars ($40.00) per
litter.
   F.   Capture of Dogs Running At Large: In the event the County Sheriff is
unable by normal means to catch a dog running at large, he may use any
reasonable means, including a tranquilizer gun, to catch the dog. The Sheriff
shall not be held liable for any injuries suffered by such dog caught running
at large.
   G.   Disposition of Impounded Animals - Hearing:
      1.   Notwithstanding the provision of division A. and B. of this section
the Sheriff or the Animal Control Officer, acting under the direction of the
Sheriff, may refuse a claim for a dog which is deemed vicious, which has caused
property damage or personal injury of any kind other than to the owner or the
owner’s property. In such event, the animal shall not be destroyed if its
owner, or any other person seeking to claim it, files with the County Clerk
during the claim period, a written request that such destruction be postponed
pending review by the County Commissioners. Such written request shall be
accompanied by payment in the amount which would be required by the time of the
meeting in order to claim the animal as provided in division A. of this
section.
      2.   When such request and payment have been made, the animal shall not
be destroyed pending a hearing by the County Commissioners. When the hearing is
conducted, the person making the request must appear and show good cause why
he/she should be allowed to claim the animal and how he/she will care for it in
order to avoid further violations of the provisions of this Article. Following
the hearing, the County Commissioners shall determine whether or not the animal
shall be destroyed.
      3.   If the Commissioners approve the destruction, the animal shall be
destroyed in a humane fashion and the payment made by the party requesting the
hearing shall be retained by the County to defray its costs of impounding the
animal pending the hearing. If the Commissioners decide that the animal should
not be destroyed, the animal shall be released from impoundment upon such terms
as the Commissioners may reasonably impose and the payment made by the person
requesting the hearing shall be retained by the County as the fee for claiming
the animal under division A. of this section. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-5: COMMERCIAL AND NON-COMMERCIAL KENNEL LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or possess upon the premises of
any one household more than four (4) dogs of six (6) or more months of age
unless the owner thereof shall have obtained a kennel license. Any person who
pleads guilty or is found guilty of violating any provision in this section,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail
not exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000), or by both.
   A.   Application for Kennel: The application for a commercial or non-
commercial kennel license shall be the same. The application for the kennel
license shall be made to the Sheriff and the original application must be
accompanied by the written consent to such kennel by at least 75% of all
property owners within a 200 yard radius of the location upon which said kennel
is to be maintained. The application shall state the name and address of the
owner, where the kennel is to be kept, the zone in which the kennel will be
maintained, and the breed(s) of dog. The application, in addition, shall have
written approval and consent by the Planning and Zoning Administrator. All dogs
shall be owned by members of the immediate household., and separate tags shall
be used for each dog. Kennel licenses shall not be transferable, and shall
expire on December 31 of the year in which issued. The fee for a kennel license
shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) per year plus five dollars ($5.00) per tag
for each dog to be maintained at such premises. It is unlawful for dogs
maintained in kennels to be allowed to run at large or cause a nuisance as
defined by this Article.
   B.   Revocation of License:
      1.   If the County Sheriff has picked up dogs owned by a commercial or
non-commercial kennel owner because they were running at large more than three
(3) times in any six (6) month period, the commercial or non-commercial license
shall be automatically revoked and the other provisions of this Article shall
apply.
      2.   If the licensee pleads or is found guilty of three (3) or more
violations of any offense contained in this Article or a substantially
conforming Idaho Code violation within one (1) year, the commercial or non-
commercial license shall be automatically revoked and the other provisions of
this Article shall apply.
      3.   The licensee shall have fourteen (14) days to appeal an automatic
license revocation under Section
5-5A-5.B. and
5-5A-5.E. of this Article. The appeal shall provide the name and address of the
former licensee as well as the grounds for relief. The appeal must be made to
the Sheriff within fourteen (14) days from the date of the triggering event.
   C.   Kennel Regulations: The Board of County Commissioners hereby adopts the
following safety and health regulations for the operation of a commercial and
non-commercial kennel. In addition, a Kennel must apply for a Conditional Use
permit in accordance with Title 10 of Bingham County Planning and Zoning
Ordinance.
      1.   General Conditions:
         a.   Applicable permits required for building, electrical, mechanical,
plumbing, sanitation and planning shall be required. Housing facilities shall
be provided the dogs and such shall be structurally sound and shall be
maintained in good repair; shall be designed so as to protect the dogs from
injury; shall contain the dogs; and shall restrict the entrance of other
animals.
         b.   Electrical power shall be supplied in conformance with the City,
County, and State electrical codes adequate to supply lightning and heating as
may be required by this Section. Water shall be supplied at sufficient pressure
and quantity to clean indoor housing facilities and primary enclosures of
debris and excreta.
         c.   Adequate potable water supply shall be provided in facilities.
Suitable food and bedding shall be provided and stored in facilities adequate
to provide protection against infestation or contamination by insects or
rodents or disease. Refrigeration shall be provided for the protection of
perishable foods.
         d.   Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal of dogs and
food wastes, bedding, dead animals, and debris. Disposal facilities shall be
maintained so as not to be a public or health hazard, free from the infestation
or contamination of insects or rodents.
         e.   Washroom facilities, including sinks and toilets, with hot and
cold water, must be conveniently available for cleaning purposes. A large sink
or tub provided for the purpose of washing utensils, equipment and facilities
must be provided.
         f.   Sick dogs shall be separated from those appearing healthy and
normal and, if for sale, shall be removed from display and sale and kept in
isolation quarters with adequate ventilation to keep from contaminating well
animals.
         g.   All commercial kennels shall have an employee on duty at all
times during hours the facility is open. It shall be the responsibility of the
employee to care for the welfare of the dogs in that facility held for sale or
display, and said employee or owner shall come in to feed, water, and do the
necessary cleaning of dogs on days the facility is closed.
         h.   No person, persons, association, firm, or corporation shall
knowingly sell a sick or injured dog.
         i.   No person, persons, association, firm or corporation shall
knowingly misrepresent a dog to a consumer in any way.
         j.   There shall be an employee on duty at all times during normal
hours any boarding facility is open. No dog shall be left unattended in
boarding facility for more than four (4) hours.
         k.   No person, persons, association, firm, or corporation shall
knowingly misrepresent boarding and grooming facilities in any way.
         l.   Noise emanating from kennels in unincorporated Bingham County is
regulated by Section 7.0.3 of this Article.
      2.   Indoor Facilities:
         a.   Heating. Indoor facilities shall be sufficiently heated when
necessary to protect dogs from cold and to provide for their heath and comfort.
The ambient temperature shall no be allowed to fall below 50° F for dogs not
acclimated to lower temperatures.
         b.   Ventilation. Indoor facilities shall be adequately ventilated to
provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times. Such facilities
shall be provided with fresh air, either by means of windows, doors, vents,
mechanical ventilation or air-conditioning, and shall be ventilated so as to
minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such
as exhaust fans, vents, or air-conditioning, shall be provided to maintain the
ambient temperature at 85° F or lower unless animal is acclimated to a higher
temperature.
         c.   Lighting. Indoor facilities shall have ample lights, by natural
or artificial means, or both, of good quality and well distributed. Such
lighting shall provide uniformly distributed illumination of sufficient light
intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning during the entire working
period. Primary enclosures shall be so placed as to protect the dogs from
excessive illumination.
         d.   Construction.
            (1)   All indoor facilities shall have interior walls, ceiling and
floor surfaces constructed of materials that are resistant to the absorption of
moisture and odors, or such surfaces shall be treated with a sealant or with
paint, when such materials are not originally resistant to moisture or odors.
Floor surfaces shall not be made of unsealed wood. In addition, interior walls
shall be constructed so that the interface with floor surfaces is sealed from
the flow or accumulation of moisture or debris.
            (2)   All commercial boarding kennels shall maintain concrete runs
for dogs held for boarding.
         e.   Drainage. All indoor facilities shall contain a drainage system
which shall be connected to a sanitary sewer or on-site sewage system which
conforms to the standards of building and sanitation codes in force within the
County and shall be designed to rapidly remove water and excreta in the
cleaning of such indoor housing facility under any condition of weather or
temperature; provided this requirement shall not apply to non-commercial
kennels. All indoor housing facilities for dogs shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition and a safe and effective disinfectant shall be used in
the cleaning of such facilities.
      3.   Outdoor Facilities:
         a.   Shelter from Sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause
overheating or discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to allow all dogs
kept outdoors to protect themselves from the direct rays of the sun.
         b.   Shelter from Cold Weather. Shelter shall be provided for all dogs
kept outdoors when the atmospheric temperature falls below 50° F. Sufficient
clean bedding material or other means of protection from the weather elements
shall be provided when the ambient temperature falls below that temperature to
which the animal is acclimated.
         c.   Shelter from Rain or Snow. Dogs kept outdoors shall be provided
with access to shelter to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow.
         d.   Drainage. Facilities shall be constructed to provide drainage to
prevent the accumulation of water, mud, debris, excreta, and other materials,
and shall be designed to facilitate the removal of animal food wastes.
         e.   Enclosures. Facilities shall be constructed with adequate walls
or fences to contain the animals kept therein and to prevent entrance of other
animals.
      4.   Primary Enclosures. All primary enclosures for dogs shall conform to
the following requirements:
         a.   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained in good
repair to protect the dogs from injury, to contain them, and to keep predators
out.
         b.   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to
enable the dogs to remain dry and clean.
         c.   Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to
provide sufficient space to allow each dog to turn about freely and to easily
stand, sit, and lie in a comfortable, normal position.
         d.   Each dog housed in a primary enclosure shall be provided a
minimum square footage of floor space equal to the mathematical square of the
sum of the length of the dog in inches as measured from the top of its nose to
the base of its tail, plus six inches, expressed in square feet, i.e., a dog
30" long, plus 6" = 36" x 36", or 3' x 3' = 9 square feet.
      5.   Sanitation of Primary Enclosures.
         a.   Prior to the introduction of dogs into empty primary enclosures
previously occupied, such enclosures shall be sanitized in a manner provided in
this subsection.
         b.   Primary enclosures for dogs shall be sanitized often enough to
prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta or a disease hazard, provided
however, that such enclosures shall be sanitized in the manner provided in this
subsection.
         c.   Cages, rooms, and hard-surfaced pens or runs shall be sanitized
by washing them with hot water or with soap or detergent, followed by a safe
and effective disinfectant. Pens or runs using gravel, sand or shavings and
replacing it as necessary.
         d.   Premises, building and grounds shall be kept clean and in good
repair and premises shall remain free of accumulations of trash.
         e.   An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites,
and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
      6.   Watering. If potable water is not accessible to the dogs at all
times, potable liquids shall be offered to such animals at least every four
hours for periods of long enough to provide adequate time for drinking. Water
receptacles shall be kept clean and shall be sanitized daily.
      7.   Feeding. Dogs shall be fed at least once each day, or more often if
required to provide adequate veterinary care. The food shall be free from
contamination, wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient quantity and nutritive
value to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the
animal.
      8.   Classification and Separation. Dogs housed in the primary enclosure
shall be maintained in compatible groups, with the following additional
restrictions:
         a.   Females in season (estrus) shall not be housed in the same
enclosure with males, except for breeding purposes.
         b.   Any dog exhibiting a vicious disposition or propensity shall be
adequately housed in a separate and secure enclosure sufficient to protect
other animals, the general public, and employees of the facility.
         c.   Dogs shall not be housed in the same enclosure with cats nor
shall dogs or cats be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other
species of animals except if primary enclosure is owner’s residence (house),
provided further, dogs and cats may be boarded together with owner’s written
permission.
         d.   Dogs under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease
shall be separated from other animals in such a manner as to minimize
dissemination of such diseases.
         e.   Boarding facilities for dogs shall keep each animal in individual
enclosure - unless otherwise specified by owner’s written permission.
      9.   Veterinary Care. Each dog shall be observed daily by the animal
caretaker in charge, or by someone under direct supervision. If such animal
becomes sick or diseased, injured, or lame, it shall be provided with
veterinary care or disposed of in a humane manner.
   D.   Applications Must Comply with Regulations: An applicant for a kennel
license must comply with the regulations of division C. in this section prior
to obtaining a license. Failure to comply with such regulations following
submission of the application shall constitute grounds for denial of the
application. Random inspection of such kennel shall be conducted by the Bingham
County Sheriff’s Office prior to the issuance of a license. Refusing to allow
such an inspection shall constitute grounds for denial of the application.
   E.   Continuing Duty to Comply with Regulations: Failure to comply with the
regulations set forth in division C. of this section during the effective
period of the kennel license shall constitute grounds for revocation of such
license. Random inspections of such kennel may be conducted by the Bingham
County Sheriff’s Office at any time during the effective period of the license.
Refusing to allow such an inspection shall result in an automatic license
revocation and the other provisions of this Article shall apply. An appeal of
such a revocation may be made in accordance with division B.3. of this section.
(Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-6: RABIES:
Any dog or any other animal showing symptoms of rabies or other disease,
sickness or illness, and every dog or other animal that has bitten any person
so as to cause an abrasion or laceration of the skin, shall be immediately
surrendered to the Animal Control Officer, or other law enforcement officer,
and thereafter said animal shall be subject to the complete jurisdiction of the
officer. If such dog or other animal is not immediately surrendered to the
officer, said officer has the authority to take custody of said animal. Said
animal shall be quarantined at the owner’s or harborer’s expense with a
veterinarian of the owner’s or harborer’s choice or at the County Animal
Shelter as needed for a period not less than ten (10) days, and, upon a
veterinarian’s determination that the animal is not rabid, sick or ill as to
cause a danger to any person, shall be released to said owner or harborer upon
the payment of quarantine and examination costs and expenses. If said costs and
expenses are not paid, disposition shall be provided as in Section
5-5A-4.A. of this Article.
Further, it shall be the duty of all practicing veterinarians to report to the
County Health Officer all cases of rabies or suspected rabies with which he/she
comes in contact or to which his/her attention has been directed. No person
shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid dog, any dog suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, or any dog biting a human, nor remove the same from the
County limits without written permission of the Health Officer, except that a
person may kill such an animal when necessary to prevent it from escaping or
biting any other animal or person. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-7: OFFENSES SUBJECT TO ELEVATED PENALTIES:
   A.   Dogs at Large: Any person, who, willfully or negligently permits any
dog owned or possessed or harbored by him to be, or run, at large without a
competent and responsible attendant or master, within the limits of any city,
town, or village or in the vicinity of any farm, pasture, ranch, dwelling
house, or land of another, or who willfully or negligently fails, neglects or
refuses to keep any such dog securely confined within the limits of his own
premises when not under the immediate care and control of a competent and
responsible attendant or master. There shall be an exception for Dogs that are
actively being used in hunting while attended by a license carrying hunter.
There shall Penalties shall be as prescribed by Section
5-5A-8 of this Article.
   B.   Biting Dog: The owner of a dog which, when not provoked, bites a person
causing a less severe injury than as defined in Section
5-5A-2, to any person who is not trespassing, committing a tort upon the
premises occupied by the owner or the keeper of the dog, teasing, tormenting,
abusing, assaulting the dog, or has in the past been observed or reported to
have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or who is attempting to commit a
crime, Penalties shall be as prescribed by Section
5-5A-8 of this Article.
   C.   Dog Nuisance: Any person owning, harboring, controlling, or keeping any
dog who permits the dog under their ownership or control to engage in barking,
howling, or any other noise which disturbs or is likely to disturb the peace
and quiet of another person. Penalties shall be as prescribed by Section
5-5A-8 of this Article.
   D.   Dumping of Dogs: Any person who turns lose, sets free, or dumps a dog
within Bingham County. Penalties shall be as prescribed by Section
5-5A-8 of this Article.
   E.   Hindering, Molesting or Interfering with Authorized Persons: Any person
who hinders, molests, or interferes with an authorized person who is engaged in
seizing any dog, killing the same or removing the carcass under the provisions
of this Article. Penalties shall be as prescribed by Section
5-5A-8 of this Article.
   F.   Nauseous, Foul or Offensive Conditions: Any person who keeps, harbors,
or maintains a dog or dogs within the County in such a manner that the keeping
of the same results in nauseous, foul or offensive conditions. Penalties shall
be as prescribed by Section
5-5A-8 of this Article.
   G.   Failure to Provide Adequate Food, Water, Shelter and Veterinary Care:
Any person who fails to provide a dog or dogs with adequate food, water,
shelter, and necessary veterinary care. Penalties shall be as prescribed by
Section
5-5A-8 of this Article. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-8: PENALTIES FOR SECTION 5-5A-7 OFFENSES:
   A.   Any person who pleads or is found guilty of a violation under Section
5-5A-7 of this Article who has not previously been convicted of a violation
under the same ordinance within the past five (5) years, shall be guilty of an
infraction punishable by a fine of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) plus court
costs.
   B.   Any person who pleads guilty to or is found guilty of a violation of
Section
5-5A-7 of this Article , who previously has pled guilty to or has been found
guilty of a violation under the same ordinance within the past five (5) years,
shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) plus court costs.
   C.   Any person who pleads guilty to or is found guilty of a violation of
Section
5-5A-7 of this Article , who previously has pled guilty to or has been found
guilty of two (2) or more violations under the same ordinance within the past
five (5) years, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in
a County Jail not exceeding six (6) months or by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both plus court costs. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-
2020)
5-5A-9: ALL OTHER OFFENSES:
   A.   Vicious Dogs: Any dog which, when not physically provoked, severely
injures or kills any person who is not trespassing, committing a tort upon the
premises occupied by the owner or the keeper of the dog, teasing, tormenting,
abusing, assaulting the dog, or has in the past been observed or reported to
have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or who is attempting to commit a
crime, is vicious. It shall be unlawful for the owner or for the owner of the
premises on which a vicious dog is present to harbor a vicious dog outside a
secure enclosure. A secure enclosure is one from which the animal cannot escape
and for which exit and entry is controlled by the owner of the premises or
owner of the animal. Any vicious dog removed from the secure enclosure must be
restrained by a chain sufficient to control the vicious dog. Persons guilty of
a violation of this subsection, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both, plus any court costs.
For a second or subsequent violation of this subsection, the court may, in the
interest of public safety, order the owner to have the vicious dog destroyed or
may direct the appropriate authorities to destroy the dog.
   B.   Destruction of Property Any person owning, harboring, controlling, or
keeping any dog who pleads guilty to or is found guilty of permitting the dog
under their ownership or control to cause property damage of any kind to a
person other than the owner or custodian of the dog shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6)
months, or by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by
both, plus any court costs.
   C.   Maltreatment or Torture of Dogs: Any person who pleads guilty or is
found guilty of beating, abusing, cruelly treating, torturing, or killing a dog
in an inhumane manner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both, plus court costs. (Ord.
2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-10: PROCEDURES UPON ATTACK:
In the event that a dog bites or attacks any person outside the property of the
owner or caretaker the following procedure shall apply:
   A.   The dog(s) shall be impounded for ten (10) days at the owner’s expense
for observation, unless the owner shows adequate proof of rabies vaccination.
   B.   After the ten (10) day quarantine and all threat of rabies are
dismissed, the dog(s) may be released after paying all fees and costs
associated with impound.
   C.   In the event any dog is involved in two or more acts of biting or
attacking that result in severe injury or death, the dog(s) must be destroyed.
(Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-11: DESTRUCTION OF INJURED DOGS:
If any dog has been severely injured by an automobile or by any other means,
the owner or the County Sheriff, if the owner or a responsible person cannot be
located within a reasonable period of time, may destroy the dog to prevent the
animal from suffering. The person who destroys the dog to prevent it from
suffering shall not be held liable for said destruction. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-
2020)
5-5A-12: VIOLATION:
Unless otherwise indicated herein, any person who pleads guilty or is found
guilty of violating any provision herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by
a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both, plus any court
costs. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
5-5A-13: LAW ENFORCEMENT:
For purposes of this Article any reference to the Bingham County Sheriff shall
also include Bingham County Sheriff Deputies. (Ord. 2020-3, 7-8-2020)
ARTICLE B. DANGEROUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Purpose
5-5B-2: Authority And Applicability
5-5B-3: Definitions
5-5B-4: Amendments
5-5B-5: Keeping Dangerous Animals Prohibited
5-5B-6: Exception
5-5B-7: Permit Requirements
5-5B-8: Violation; Penalties
5-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to prohibit the keeping of dangerous animals,
for their own protection, and for the protection of the public, in order that
such animals shall not become a public nuisance or health hazard, or threaten
persons, property or the environment. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
5-5B-2: AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
Pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code sections 31-714 and 52-102,
this article shall have applicability within the unincorporated areas of
Bingham County. This article is also adopted pursuant to the police power
recognized as inherent in governmental bodies to control the public health,
safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
5-5B-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
BOARD: The Bingham County Board of County Commissioners.
COUNTY: County of Bingham, State of Idaho.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: A. Generally: Any animal or species or a type likely to cause
injury to a person, or any animal which has demonstrated a propensity to attack
or cause injury to a person. This term specifically includes animals such as,
but not limited to: lions, tigers, leopards, ligers, panthers, jaguars, lynxes,
pumas, mountain lions, cougars, cheetah, ocelots, bears, wolves, coyotes,
nonhuman primate, crocodiles, alligators, as well as any dangerous and/or
poisonous reptile, and, any hybrid or crossbreeds of these or other dangerous
species. Specifically excluded from the term includes those animals commonly
accepted as domestic in the United States, including, but not limited to:
ostrich, llama, emu, bison, bison hybrids and the like which are farmed for
food or fiber.
   B.   Wolf Hybrid: The factors for purposes of identifying a wolf hybrid
shall be that four (4) of the eight (8) primary wolf characteristics are found:
1) eyes shine greenish orange; 2) ears rounded and smaller in proportion to
those of the coyote; 3) snout is broad with nose pad wider than one inch (1");
4) legs are long; an adult would stand at a minimum of twenty six inches (26")
at shoulder; 5) length is four and one-half feet (4.5') to six feet (6') from
the tip of the nose to the tip of the tail; 6) an adult weighs at least seventy
(70) pounds; 7) tail is carried high or straight, not curly; 8) fur is long and
coarse, varies from white to black but is generally grayish in coloration
resembling the coyote. The under parts are not as white and the legs and feet
are not as red as those of the coyote. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
5-5B-4: AMENDMENTS:
The Board may, upon its own motion or upon recommendation, make amendments to
this article. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
5-5B-5: KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
No person or organization may keep, maintain, have in his or her possession or
under his or her control, or cause to be present in the County any dangerous
animal. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
5-5B-6: EXCEPTION:
Dangerous animals being transported through the County may be present for no
more than twelve (12) consecutive hours in the County. Any person or
organization desiring to keep, maintain, have in his or her possession or under
his or her control, or cause to be present in the County any dangerous animal
for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours must obtain a permit from the
County pursuant to section
5-5B-7 of this article. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
5-5B-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person or organization who desires to keep,
maintain, have in his or her possession or under his or her control, or cause
to be present in the County for longer than twelve (12) consecutive hours any
dangerous animal must first apply for and obtain a permit from the County, and
pay any applicable fee for the issuing of such permit.
   B.   Proof Of Federal Or State Licensure; Processing Fee: If any person or
organization desires to exhibit or publicly display one or more dangerous
animal(s), that person or organization shall, before any permit is issued by
Bingham County, provide proof of their current licensure by the United States
Department of Agriculture and/or Idaho Department of Fish and Game. No County
permit may issue without proof of such current licensure. Such applicants must
also pay a processing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per permit.
   C.   Inspection: Any applicant for such permit shall be required to sign a
consent form allowing the Bingham County Sheriff or the Sheriff's designee, or
any other appointed inspector, to enter upon the premises where such animal
might be kept, to inspect the same for the safety of the animal, and for the
safety of the general public.
   D.   Proof Of Insurance: As prerequisite to the issuance of any permit for
the exhibition or display of a dangerous animal, the applicant shall provide
proof of liability insurance in at least the sum of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence per animal. Such provisions may be amended
by regulation as adopted pursuant hereto.
   E.   Whereabouts Of Animals: A permit shall be filled out in full as to the
whereabouts of all animals in possession or disposed of in any way. This
information shall be included on the application in the given area.
   F.   County Board Discretion And Authority: A permit to exhibit or publicly
display any dangerous animal shall be permitted at the sole discretion of the
Board. Further, the Board shall have full discretion to determine any and all
terms and conditions of any permit issued, so long as said terms and conditions
are not inconsistent with any existing law.
   G.   Term Of Permit: In the event a permit is issued permitting the public
display or exhibition of any dangerous animal, that permit shall be valid for a
maximum of two (2) weeks from the date of issuance. Under no circumstances will
a dangerous animal be permitted to remain in the County longer than two (2)
weeks.
   H.   Applications Available At Sheriff's Department: Applications for
permits shall be available at the Sheriff's Department. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-
2008)
5-5B-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any violation of this article shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as follows:
   A.   Except as provided by sections
5-5B-6 and
5-5B-7 of this article, it is a violation of this article for any person to
bring into or through the County, house, care for, keep, or cause to be
present, any dangerous animal(s) in the County. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
   B.   Any violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each animal held in noncompliance of this article shall be
considered a separate offense. Each day an animal is held in noncompliance may
constitute a new and separate offense. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008; amd. 2018
Code)
   C.   In addition to the criminal penalties contained herein, the County will
have authority to confiscate and destroy animals kept in violation of this
article or these regulations. (Ord. 2008-11, 11-24-2008)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Vehicle Registration, Administrative Fee
6-1-2: Speed And Weight Limits
6-1-3: Compression Brake Use Restrictions
6-1-4: Speed Restrictions
6-1-1: VEHICLE REGISTRATION, ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to authority granted to the
Board of County Commissioners by Idaho Code sections 31-870 and 63-1311. (Ord.
2001-06, 3-12-2001)
   B.   Setting Of Administrative Fee: The administration fee to be collected
by the Bingham County Assessor with respect to the granting or renewal of a
registration for a motor vehicle shall be the amount of six dollars ($6.00) per
vehicle. The Bingham County Assessor shall set the manner and method of
collecting said fee. (Ord. 2001-06, 3-12-2001; amd. Ord. 2018-08, 8-6-2018)
6-1-2: SPEED AND WEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as the BINGHAM COUNTY SPEED
AND WEIGHT ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority And Purpose:
      1.   This section is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code
section 31-714 and title 49, chapter 10. (Ord. 86-4, 2-26-1986; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   The purpose of this section is to establish a load limit per inch of
tire width and a speed limit during such seasons as the County Commissioners
shall deem advisable. Weight shall not exceed three hundred fifty (350) pounds
per tire inch for all trucks and buses. Speed shall not exceed thirty five (35)
miles per hour for all trucks and buses.
      3.   Implementation of such speed and weight limits shall be set annually
by the Bingham County Commissioners to protect County roads from spring
deterioration and shall apply to County roads only.
   C.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any portions of this section.
      2.   Any person convicted of such violation shall be subject to
punishment as prescribed by law. (Ord. 86-4, 2-26-1986)
6-1-3: COMPRESSION BRAKE USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Use Near Any City:
      1.   Definition: "Compression brake" shall mean any braking system of a
motor vehicle that modifies engine valve operation to use engine compression to
slow the motor vehicle and shall include brakes commonly referred to as "jake
brakes" or "engine brakes".
      2.   Prohibited Act: No operator of any motor vehicle shall use or
activate a compression brake within one mile of any city.
      3.   Violation; Penalty:
         a.   Any person violating the provision of this subsection A for the
first time shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by imposition
of a fine in the amount of thirty five dollars ($35.00).
         b.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection A who has
previously been found guilty or pled guilty to a violation of this subsection A
shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by imposition of a fine
in the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 2005-10, 5-25-2005)
         c.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection A who has
previously been found guilty or pled guilty of at least two (2) prior
violations of this subsection A shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
         d.   The fine amounts set forth above for infraction offenses shall be
separate and apart from any court costs assessed pursuant to Idaho Code section
31-3201A or any other provision of law. The fine amount set forth for a
misdemeanor offense shall be separate and apart from any court costs assessed
pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-3201A or any other provision of Idaho law.
(Ord. 2005-10, 5-25-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Use Near Aberdeen:
      1.   Declaration Of Purpose: The Bingham County Board of County
Commissioners hereby find and declare that the use of engine brakes creates a
loud, and excessive noise which affects the quality of life of those
individuals living nearby. Further, the City of Aberdeen has passed an engine
brake ordinance restricting the use of engine brakes within the City limits due
to the large number of trucks operating in the Aberdeen area and the noise
created by engine brakes. However, the City of Aberdeen lacks jurisdiction to
pass such ordinance in the populated areas just outside City limits. The
Commissioners, therefore, adopt this subsection B in order to protect the
quality of life for the individuals living just outside the City limits of
Aberdeen.
      2.   Definition: For the purpose of this subsection B, the term "engine
brake" is defined as a hydraulically operated device that operates a power
producing diesel engine into a power absorbing retarding mechanism that
produces a noise that is loud and excessive.
      3.   Use Of Engine Brakes: All vehicles, excepting only fire trucks and
other emergency equipment, shall not engage engine brakes within a one mile
radius of Aberdeen City limits as posted by Bingham County. (Ord. 2010-09, 10-
26-2010, eff. 10-26-2010)
      4.   Penalty: Any person who is found guilty, or who pleads guilty, to a
violation of this subsection B shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2010-09, 10-26-2010, eff. 10-26-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Use In Designated County Areas:
      1.   Certain Areas Designated; Signs:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate any
motor vehicle with a dynamic braking device engaged within designated areas of
the County. Said designated areas will have two (2) road signs designating the
beginning and ending of the dynamic braking device prohibition area. Said road
signs shall read as follows:
 
ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED
NEXT          MILES
Bingham County Ordinance 2017-03
 
   And
 
END OF ENGINE BRAKE PROHIBITION AREA
Bingham County Ordinance 2017-03
 
         b.   Said areas of dynamic braking device prohibition shall be
designated by the Bingham County Commissioners. To establish an engine brake
prohibition area, any person must make an application to the Bingham County
Commissioners setting forth a proposed engine brake prohibition area. A public
meeting shall be set. At the meeting, any interested party may present evidence
or testimony concerning the proposed engine brake prohibition area.
         c.   The Bingham County Commissioners will then decide whether or not
to establish the engine brake prohibition area. The Bingham County Road and
Bridge Supervisor will order the State approved signs.
      2.   Definition: "Dynamic braking device" is defined as a device used
primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal
combustion to air compressor for the purpose of braking. Dynamic braking device
is also commonly referred to as a "jacobs brake", "jake brake", "engine brake",
or "compression brake".
      3.   Penalty:
         a.   Any person or entity violating the provisions of this subsection
C for the first time shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by
imposition of a fine in the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00).
         b.   Any person or entity which violates this subsection C who has
previously been found guilty or pled guilty of violating this subsection C
within five (5) years shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished
by confinement in the County Jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or
by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00), and/or both such fine
and imprisonment. (Ord. 2017-03, 3-23-2017)
6-1-4: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   National Reactor Testing Station; Driving In Reasonable And Prudent
Manner: No person shall drive a vehicle on any National Reactor Testing Station
(also known as the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory) highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard
for the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall
be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering the highway in compliance with
these regulations and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   B.   Speed Limit Specified: Where no special hazard exists that requires
lower speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the speed of any
vehicle not in excess of the limits specified in this section or established as
hereinafter authorized shall be lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits
specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized shall be
prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is
unlawful: (Ord. 75-1, 1-27-1975)
Fifty five (55) miles per hour in other locations at any time. (Ord. 75-1, 1-
27-1975; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Restrictions In Certain Areas: The driver of every vehicle shall,
consistent with the requirements of subsection A of this section, drive at an
appropriate reduced speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or
railway grade crossing, when approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and
when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by
reason of weather or highway conditions. (Ord. 75-1, 1-27-1975)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY ROADS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Equipment Turnaround On County Rights-Of-Way
7-1-2: Irrigation Water Or Wastewater On Roads
7-1-3: Road Rights-Of-Way Uniform Distance Standards
7-1-4: Platting Fees For Subdivision Developers
7-1-1: EQUIPMENT TURNAROUND ON COUNTY RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to authority granted by
Idaho Code section 31-714.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to ensure a safe environment
for those traveling on roadways in Bingham County and to protect County
roadways from deterioration caused by persons using County rights-of-way as
turnarounds for farm equipment.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    PERSON: Every natural person, firm, fiduciary, partnership, association,
corporation, trustee, receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors,
political subdivision, State or Federal governmental department, agency, or
instrumentality.
   POSSESS: To hold a current right to occupy real property and control the
activities conducted on the real property. The lessee possesses leased real
property during the term of the lease. (Ord. 99-07, 3-31-1999)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Every person who causes or allows equipment
turnaround on a County right-of-way is guilty of an infraction and shall be
fined one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the first offense. Any person
convicted of subsequent violation, within the same calendar year, shall be
fined two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each violation. (Ord. 99-07, 3-
31-1999; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-2: IRRIGATION WATER OR WASTEWATER ON ROADS:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to authority granted by
Idaho Code section 31-714.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to ensure a safe environment
for those traveling on roadways in Bingham County and to protect County
roadways from deterioration caused by water from irrigation and waste drainage.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, unless it is plainly
evident from the context that a different meaning is intended, certain terms
used herein are defined as follows:
    PERSON: Every natural person, firm, fiduciary, partnership, association,
corporation, trustee, receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors,
political subdivision, State or Federal governmental department, agency, or
instrumentality.
   POSSESS: To hold a current right to occupy real property and control the
activities conducted on the real property. Leased real property is possessed by
the lessee during the term of the lease.
   D.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   First offense: Any person who wilfully or negligently causes or
allows any irrigation water or wastewater, which is either under his control or
is set in motion from real property which he possesses, to flow onto or fall
upon any public highway, road, or street in Bingham County shall be guilty of
an infraction punishable by a fine of thirty five dollars ($35.00) when the
violator has not previously been convicted of a violation of this section
within the calendar year.
      2.   Second offense: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty of a
violation of subsection D1 of this section, who previously has been found
guilty or has pled guilty to a violation under the same section within the past
calendar year, shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine of seventy
five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 2009-05, 5-18-2009)
      3.   Third offense: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty of a
violation of subsection D1 of this section, who previously has been twice found
guilty or has pled guilty to a violation under the same section within the past
calendar year, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2009-05, 5-18-2009; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-3: ROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY UNIFORM DISTANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ARTERIALS (COUNTY HIGHWAYS): A primary traffic route that provides the
majority of the traffic flow between communities.
   BINGHAM COUNTY ROAD AND BRIDGE DEPARTMENT: The County department responsible
for the maintenance, construction, repair, snow removal, sanding and traffic
control of the County's system of highways, roads or streets which are
qualified to receive funds from the highway distribution account to local units
of government pursuant to Idaho Code section 40-709.
   CENTER OF THE ROAD: One-half (1/2) of the measured distance from one edge of
the pavement or travelway to the other edge of pavement or travelway.
   COLLECTOR ROAD: A road or highway that provides for traffic movement within
neighborhoods and between major and local roads, at a rate of less than one
thousand (1,000) vehicles per day.
   ENCROACHMENT: The unauthorized use of public rights-of- way such as signs,
fences, buildings, parking, storing, utilities, etc.
   LOCAL STREET/ROAD: A street or road that provides for direct access to
residential, commercial, industrial, or other abutting land for local traffic
movements and connects to collector and/or arterial streets.
   MAJOR COLLECTOR: A road or highway that provides for traffic movement within
neighborhoods and between major and local roads at a rate of more than one
thousand (1,000) vehicles per day.
   PUBLIC RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY: Any land dedicated and open to the public and under
the jurisdiction of a public highway agency. The public highway agency has no
obligation to construct or maintain a right-of-way for vehicular traffic, but
it is a term used to define a specific space.
   SUBDIVISION: Any division of a property into lots, parcels, or sites for the
purpose of sale or building development that has been approved by the Bingham
County Board of Commissioners as a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION ROAD: A street which provides for residential traffic movement
within a neighborhood and between collectors and local roads.
   B.   Classification Of Roads: All roads will be identified as either
arterials, major collectors, collectors, local roads or subdivision roads and
shall be displayed on an Official Long Range Transportation Map or an Official
Functional Classification Map of the County. This classification shall be
consistent with the Federal Highway Administration Standards. Classifications
of roads and map changes shall be updated and approved by the Bingham County
Commissioners based upon a determination of need. Reclassification of roads or
map updates shall not invalidate this section.
   C.   Rights-Of-Way Width Table: All arterials, major collectors, collectors,
local roads, or subdivision roads shall comply with the minimum requirements as
set forth in the following table unless such arterial, major collector,
collector, local roads, or subdivision roads be presently existing:
   TABLE 1
   (Measured In Feet)
 
                                                                 Rights-Of-Way
From center of the road to the following distances on each side:
 Arterials (County highways)                                     40
 Major collectors (more than 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd))       35
 Collectors (less than 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd))             30
 Local roads                                                     25
 Subdivisions/platted Town sites where structures are not on a   25
 through road
 
(Ord. 2013-06, 7-3-2013)
7-1-4: PLATTING FEES FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPERS:
The Bingham County Commissioners have determined that a platting fee shall be
charged to developers of subdivisions.
   A.   Fees: The platting fees and other requirements shall be as follows:
      1.   Preliminary plat: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Final plat:
         a.   Review and checking: Idaho Code section 50-1305, two hundred ten
dollars ($210.00) plus twenty dollars ($20.00) per lot.
         b.   Improvement plans review and checking: Two hundred ten dollars
($210.00) plus ten dollars ($10.00) per lot.
         c.   Plats that require street and utility construction inspections:
            (1)   Sewer line inspections: Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per lot.
            (2)   Water line inspections: Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per lot.
            (3)   Curb, gutter and sidewalk construction: Fifteen dollars
($15.00) per lot.
            (4)   Roadway inspections: Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per lot.
   B.   Certificate Of Compliance: An electronic copy is preferred in addition
to a hard copy in Auto-Cad, Micro Survey, C&G or Sight Survey, compatible to
Windows 95 or 98. In lieu of Bingham County conducting the street and utility
construction inspection, the developer may provide a certificate of compliance
from a professional engineer or professional land surveyor. (Ord. 99-05, 3-29-
1999)
CHAPTER 2
ROAD TRENCHING AND ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY WORK PERMIT
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Permit Required; Fee
7-2-3: Rebuilding Area To Standard Specifications
7-2-4: Deposit Requirements
7-2-5: Barricades And Traffic Signs And Control Devices Requirements
7-2-6: Obtaining Right-Of-Way From Property Owners
7-2-7: Burying Utilities
7-2-8: Public Utilities; Permit Requirement For Each Encroachment
7-2-9: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   All definitions shall conform to Idaho Code title 40, chapter 1. (Ord.
2019-04, 2-25-2019)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall breach, destroy, alter, or modify the
surface of any public roadway or produce work or disturb the areas adjacent to
a County roadway in Bingham County without first obtaining a road trenching
permit from the Bingham County Public Works Department.
   B.   Permit Application And Fee: A road trenching/road right-of- way work
permit shall be obtained by any person, entity, or business prior to
implementation of any work upon a public roadway in Bingham County. A completed
road trenching/road right-of-way work permit application, along with the
appropriate deposit bond and one hundred dollar ($100.00) permit fee, shall be
submitted to the Bingham County Public Works Department who shall, upon
approval of said application and receipt of deposit bond and permit fee, issue
a permit with an identifying permit number. Any person working under an
obtained permit must possess knowledge of the identifying permit number for
County verification purpose. Failure to possess knowledge of the identifying
permit number may result in a stop work order until County verification is
completed.
   C.   Penalty For Work With No Permit: Any person, entity, or business who
implements any work upon a public roadway in Bingham County without first
obtaining a road trenching/road right-of-way work permit shall be required to
obtain one from the Bingham County Public Works Department at twice the regular
permit fee ($200.00) along with the appropriate deposit bond. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-
25-2019)
7-2-3: REBUILDING AREA TO STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The applicant/permit holder shall be responsible for the proper
backfill, compaction, and rebuild of the area of roadway disturbed by their
work. Road repair work shall conform to the standards set forth in the current
volume of the "Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction" and shall leave
the areas adjacent to the roadway as nearly as practical to its original
condition or better than existed prior to the work performed under the issued
road trenching permit.
   B.   If more than one crossing is made by the applicant/permit holder during
the same project or related projects, the permit holder may, at the discretion
of Bingham County, be required to rebuild the road section between the
crossings.
   C.   Installation of an authorized standard T-Top replacement for trenching
of paved road shall be in accordance with the current Bingham County Highway
and Street Standards manual by resolution.
Installation of an authorized standard road cross section replacement of paved
road shall be in accordance with the current Bingham County Highway and Street
Standards manual by resolution. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-25-2019)
7-2-4: DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Amount Of Deposit For Road Trenching/Road Right-Of-Way Work Permit: All
applicants for a road trenching/road right-of-way work permit shall deposit
with the Bingham County Public Works Department a certain sum of money to be
calculated as shown in the table below, to ensure against any residual damage
that may be sustained to a public roadway as a result of breach of the roadway
surface.
The following table represents an initial deposit structure and may be modified
or amended from time to time by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners.
 
Crossing Type Deposit Amount         Retention Period Refundable Amount
Boring        $100.00                1 year           $100.00
              $13.00 per linear foot                  $13.00 per linear foot
Gravel road   or $300.00, whichever  1 year           or $300.00, whichever is
              is greater                              greater
              $30.00 per linear foot                  $30.00 per linear foot
Oil roads     or $800.00, whichever  1 year           or $800.00, whichever is
              is greater                              greater
 
   B.   Refund Of Deposit; Other Stipulations:
      1.   The deposit, or a portion thereof, shall be refunded to the
applicant/permit holder based on the time frames set forth in the table in
subsection A of this section, as it may be amended from time to time, the
retention period shall remain the same based on the conditions set forth of
when the individual road trenching permit was issued.
      2.   The refundable amount shall be the deposited amount, less any amount
necessary to return the roadway surface as nearly as practical to its original
condition.
      3.   If the applicant/permit holder has not returned the roadway surface
to the as nearly as practical to its original condition or better, then Bingham
County or a County designated qualified contractor will repair the roadway and
the cost for such repairs will be deducted from the deposited amount before any
portion of the deposited amount is refunded.
      4.   The deposit will be forfeited if the roadway is not permanently
repaired within ninety (90) days from the date the permit was issued by Bingham
County.
   C.   Responsibility For Costs Exceeding Deposit: Should the cost to repair
the roadway surface to its nearly practical original condition exceed the
amount of the deposit, the applicant/permit holder shall be required to pay any
costs associated with the County having to take action to repair the roadway or
adjacent property or take any corrective action.
The applicant/permit holder shall make total payment to Bingham County for such
cost within ninety (90) days of notification from Bingham County to the
applicant/permit holder of the exceeded amount.
   D.   Road Right-Of-Way Work Permit; Deposit To Repair Roadways: Any party
that has a project adjacent to a County roadway that could breach, destroy,
alter, or modify the surface of any public roadway or produce work or disturb
the areas adjacent to a County roadway in Bingham County is required to obtain
a road right-of-way work permit and shall pay a deposit to the Bingham County
Public Works Department.
The following table represents an initial deposit structure and may be modified
or amended from time to time by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners.
 
Type     Deposit Amount Retention Period Refundable Amount
ROW work $100.00        1 year           $100.00
 
In the event the damage to any and all roadway or bridge occurs under the
issued road right-of-way permit the aforementioned deposit will be forfeited to
cover the cost to repair the damage by the County. In the event the damage
repair to the County exceeds the deposit amount the permit holder will be
responsible for all costs associated with the repair damage incurred by the
County. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-25-2019)
7-2-5: BARRICADES AND TRAFFIC SIGNS AND CONTROL DEVICES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Barricades And Signs: The applicant/permit holder shall be responsible
for erecting and maintaining traffic barricades, signs, and other traffic
control devices prior to, during, and following construction work until all
County roadways have been properly repaired and safety concerns ameliorated.
Said traffic control devices shall conform to the current issue of the "Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
   B.   Cost Of Maintaining Road Crossing And Signing: It will be the
responsibility of the applicant/permit holder to pay all costs for maintaining
traffic control, road crossing and signing prior to, during, and following
construction until the Director of the Bingham County Public Works Department
approves completion of the applicant's/permit holder's obligations under the
conditions of the issued permit.
   C.   Traffic Control Plan: The applicant/permit holder shall be responsible
for submittal of a Traffic Control Plan to the Bingham County Public Works
Department within seven (7) days prior to the commencement of any work
identified under the road trenching permit.
   D.   Content; Review; Approval: The Traffic Control Plan shall follow the
prescribed methods required under the current Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (MUTCD). The submitted Traffic Control Plan shall be reviewed and
approved or denied within the seven (7) days by the Bingham County Public Works
Road and Bridge Supervisor, Traffic Control Technician or the Public Works
Director's designated individual. The approved Traffic Control Plan shall be
followed during the work performed under the assigned road trenching permit.
(Ord. 2019-04, 2-25-2019)
7-2-6: OBTAINING RIGHT-OF-WAY FROM PROPERTY OWNERS:
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant/permit holder, excluding public
utilities, to obtain the right-of-way permission from each property owner over
which their construction will cross or affect. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-25-2019)
7-2-7: BURYING UTILITIES:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant/permit holder to ensure
that all utilities will be buried at a minimum depth of thirty six inches
(36").
   B.   The applicant/permit holder shall provide a forty eight (48) hour
notice to the Bingham County Public Works Department for a County
representative to be present to verify that all utilities are buried at the
required depth and to assure that the required linings are installed as
specified in the issued permit to use the public right-of-way.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant/permit holder to ensure
that its utilities and encroachments in the public right-of-way are buried at
the required depth. Bingham County will not be held responsible for damages to
any property, facility, or utilities and encroachments not buried at the
required depth. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-25-2019)
7-2-8: PUBLIC UTILITIES; PERMIT REQUIREMENT FOR EACH ENCROACHMENT:
   A.   Public utility companies shall be required to submit a permit
application for each encroachment through the Bingham County Public Works
Department prior to beginning work in the public right-of-way.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of the public utility companies to
notify the Bingham County Public Works Department seventy two (72) hours prior
to excavation. If using a subcontractor, public utility companies shall be held
responsible for advising their subcontractor of the required seventy two (72)
hour notification and work scheduling requirement. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-25-2019)
7-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Each person who fails to obtain a permit, or fails to
adhere to the conditions of this chapter, or fails to comply with its permit as
specified by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
imprisoned in the County Jail for not more than six (6) months, or both fine
and imprisonment. A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Civil Penalty: Additionally, any individual violating this chapter may
be required to pay any costs associated with the County having to take action
to repair the roadway or adjacent property or take any corrective action that
is a result of the violation, with costs of such action being charged against
the violator and due and owing to Bingham County upon completion of corrective
action, removal of work, or repairs by Bingham County.
   C.   Calculating Costs: These costs shall be calculated using the current
rates utilized by Bingham County Public Works Department, or current private
contractor competitive rates. (Ord. 2019-04, 2-25-2019)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY STANDARDS AND APPROACHES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Property Owner Responsibility
7-3-2: Mailbox Installation, Location
7-3-3: Approaches And Intersections
7-3-4: Sight Obstructions, Restrictions
7-3-5: Reserved
7-3-6: Permit For New Approaches; Requirements
7-3-7: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
It will be the responsibility of each property owner to take the action
necessary to ensure that vegetation and/or other obstructions do not hinder the
visibility and/or safety of motorists. (Ord. 2002-05, 6-27-2002; amd. Ord.
2019-08, 7-15-2019; Ord. 2025-02, 2-12-2025)
7-3-2: MAILBOX INSTALLATION, LOCATION:
   A.   Installation of mailboxes located in or on the public right-of-way must
comply with the following requirement in the County.
      1.   All installation of mailboxes shall conform to United States Postal
Requirements including requirement that the front face of the mailbox be a
minimum of eight feet (8') from edge of the asphalt or current federal
requirements.
      2.   New Mailboxes: New mailboxes and the fill material shall be
installed by the owner at his/her own expense.
      3.   Replacement/Relocation of Mailboxes: Replacement/relocation
mailboxes and fill material shall be placed by the owner at their own expense.
To encourage the replacement/relocation of existing mailboxes to conform to
this chapter, Bingham County may provide the fill material by determination of
the Public Works Director.
   B.   In Subdivisions, where mailboxes are required by the Postmaster, a
central mailbox location turnout, shall be provided in accordance with Bingham
County Road Standards Manual and provide safe pedestrian and/or vehicular
access. (Ord. 2002-05, 6-27-2002; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2019-08, 7-15-2019; Ord.
2025-02, 2-12-2025)
7-3-3: APPROACHES AND INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Any street that is classified on the Bingham County Official Functional
County Road Classification Map as an arterial Map as an arterial, major
collector, minor collector, local county roads, cul-de-sacs and dead-ends,
shall be controlled by distances between approaches and from intersections. All
approaches and intersections shall meet the sight distance and spacing
standards shown in the Bingham County Road Standards Manual.
   B.   This road classification of different county roads may change from time
to time. This will depend on growth and needs of the county. The official
classification will be the status of the road as it is classified on the
Official County Map. This official county map is the base map maintained on the
county records. This map is updated to the state on a regular basis. (Ord.
2002-05, 6-27-2002; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2019-08, 7-15-2019; Ord. 2022-07, 3-2-
2022; Ord. 2025-02, 2-12-2025)
7-3-4: SIGHT OBSTRUCTIONS, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sight obstructions or potential obstructions (i.e., growing plants or
trees) cannot be higher than three feet (3') in height and cannot be located in
or on a road right-of-way.
   B.   Sight obstructions or potential obstructions located on private
property, not part of a public right-of-way, shall comply with sight distances
and clear zone requirements as set forth in Idaho Code Section 49-221. This
section shall not restrict Bingham County's right to request that any or all
items be removed from public right-of-way because of maintenance needs or other
considerations. (Ord. 2002-05, 6-27-2002; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 2019-08, 7-15-
2019; Ord. 2025-02, 2-12-2025)
7-3-5: RESERVED
Reserved by Res. 2023-33, 6-20-2023.
7-3-6: PERMIT FOR NEW APPROACHES; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Approval and Issuance: A County approach permit or other
required permit must be approved and issued by the Bingham County Public Works
Department for all new approaches prior to the issuance of a building permit.
Approaches are to be maintained to the sight distances shown in the Bingham
County Road Standards Manual on file in the county.
   B.   Permit Approval Criteria: The following criteria are to be met for
approval of any permit application:
      1.   Driveways must be designed to allow motorists to turn their vehicles
around without backing out onto a County Road.
   2.   If property is higher or lower than the adjacent public roadway, the
approach coming onto the roadway shall not have more than a three percent (3%)
grade connecting it to the roadway for a distance of not less than thirty feet
(30'), and the approach leading to the roadway must allow the vehicle to stop
on the thirty-foot (30') approach at the three percent (3%) grade.
      3.   Approaches shall be for the bona fide purpose of securing access to
property adjacent to the public roadway and not for the purpose of parking,
conducting business, and/or vehicle maintenance on the public right-of-way.
      4.   When deemed necessary by the Bingham County Public Works Department,
the design of the construction of the approach shall include drainage pipe of a
size specified on the permit (twelve-inch [12"] minimum.
      5.   The portion of the approach in the right-of-way may either be
gravel, asphalt or concrete.
         a.   Bingham County shall not be held responsible for any damage to
concrete driveways which extend into the public right-of-way that result from
the county's performance for their regular road maintenance duties.
   C.   Construction Requirements and Restrictions:
      1.   The permit applicant shall furnish all material, labor, and
equipment involved in the construction of the approach and its appurtenances.
This will also apply to curb and gutter, concrete sidewalk, etc., where
required.
      2.   No work on physical construction of an approach shall be started
until an authorized representative of Bingham County Public Works Department
has given written notice to the permit applicant to proceed.
      3.   The constructed approach shall conform to the plans approved by the
Bingham County Public Works Department as a part of the permit. Adequate
drawings or sketches shall be included with the application to show the design,
materials, construction requirements and proposed location of the approach. The
Bingham County Public Works Department shall use the most recent edition of the
Manual for the use of Public Right-of-Way- Standard Approach Policy in
approving approach designs.
      4.   The Bingham County Public Works Department may change, amend or
withdraw an approach permit or any of the conditions enumerated in granting the
permit, if the construction of the approach fails to comply with the permit
requirements or the requirements or set forth in this chapter.
      5.   During the construction of an approach, barricades, signs and other
traffic control devices shall be erected and maintained by the permit
applicant. Said devices shall conform to the current issue of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Parked equipment and stored materials shall be
located as far from the traveled way as feasible. Items stored within thirty
feet (30') of the traveled way shall be marked and protected.
      6.   Upon Completion of the approach, all excess materials and debris
shall be immediately removed from the public right-of-way.
      7.   No revisions or additions shall be made to an approach or its
appurtenances on the public right-of-way without the written permission of the
Bingham County Public Works Department.
      8.   The owner of property where any approach permit has been granted
under this chapter shall maintain the approach to comply with the requirements
set forth by the Bingham County Public Works Department when the permit was
issued.
      9.   Bingham County reserves the right to require the permit applicant,
its successors and assigns, to make necessary changes, additions, repairs and
relocations to any approach or its appurtenances within the public right-of-way
to permit the relocation, reconstruction, widening, drainage, and maintenance
of the roadway and/or to provide proper protection to life and property on or
adjacent to the roadway. (Ord. 2002-05, 6-27-2002; amd. 2018 Code; amd. Ord.
2019-08, 7-15-2019; Res. 2023-25, 5-3-2023; Ord. 2025-02, 2-12-2025)
7-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty of a violation of this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction punishable as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate
offense.
   B.   It shall be an affirmative defense to any infraction prosecution that
the property owner completed the required corrective action within thirty (30)
days following notice of the need to take corrective action by the County.
   C.   No infraction prosecution shall be initiated against a property owner
until thirty (30) days following notice of the need to take corrective action
by the county. Bingham County, at its option, may make demand for a property
owner to comply with the provision of this chapter or may take action itself to
correct or remove the violation, with the costs of such action being charged
against the property owner and due and owing to the county upon completion of
corrective action or removal work by the county. (Ord. 2002-05, 6-27-2002; amd.
Ord. 2019-08, 7-15-2019; Ord. 2025-02, 2-12-2025)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY ON RIGHTS-OF- WAY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definition
7-4-2: Prohibited Acts; Exceptions
7-4-3: Removal Of Vehicles And Trailers
7-4-4: Violation; Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITION:
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: The right-of-way upon which exists any public highway,
road, street, or bridge. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-25-2005)
7-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Parking; Removal:
      1.   No person shall knowingly park or place or allow to be parked or
placed any motor vehicle, trailer, or personal property within or upon any
public right-of-way.
      2.   Every owner or operator of any motor vehicle or trailer which comes
to rest within or upon a public right-of-way because of mechanical failure
shall remove or cause to be removed said vehicle or trailer from the public
right-of-way without unnecessary delay.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to public
employees or agents while in the course and scope of their employment or
agency, nor to employees or agents of any public utility while in the course
and scope of their employment or agency. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-25-2005)
7-4-3: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AND TRAILERS:
   A.   Any law enforcement officer or employee of the Road and Bridge
Department may remove or cause to be removed any vehicle, trailer or personal
property parked or placed within or upon a public right-of-way.
   B.   The owner and operator of the motor vehicle shall be responsible for
all costs associated with removal of any motor vehicle, trailer or personal
property from a public right-of- way, whether such removal is performed by the
law enforcement agency, an employee of the Road and Bridge Department or any
private person or company at the request of any law enforcement officer or Road
and Bridge Department employee. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-25-2005)
7-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter for the first time
shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by imposition of a fine
in the amount of thirty five dollars ($35.00).
   B.   A person violating the provisions of this chapter who has previously
been found guilty or pled guilty to a violation of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction and shall be punished by imposition of a fine in the amount of
seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 2005-11, 5-25-2005)
   C.   A person violating the provisions of this chapter who has previously
been found guilty or pled guilty of at least two (2) prior violations of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-25-2005; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND WATERWAYS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Authority
7-5-2: Purpose
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Enforcement
7-5-5: Alcoholic Beverages
7-5-6: Animals
7-5-7: Closure Of County Property
7-5-8: Fires
7-5-9: Firearms, Imitation Firearms, And Dangerous Weapons
7-5-10: Fireworks And Explosive Devices
7-5-11: Golfing
7-5-12: Indecent Exposure
7-5-13: Injuring, Vandalizing Or Tampering With Property
7-5-14: Littering
7-5-15: Motorized Vehicles On Hills, Grassy Areas, Pathways, Or Greenbelts
7-5-16: Noise Abatement And Disturbing The Peace
7-5-17: Restroom Use
7-5-18: Signs And Warning Placards
7-5-19: Speed Of Motorized Vehicles
7-5-20: Trespass
7-5-21: Watercraft
7-5-22: Swimming Restrictions And Use Of Boat Docks And Boat Ramps
7-5-23: Permission As A Defense
7-5-24: Attempted Violations
7-5-25: Aiding, Assisting Or Encouraging Violations
7-5-26: Classification Of Violation As Infraction Or Misdemeanor
7-5-1: AUTHORITY:
The Bingham County Board of Commissioners have authority to adopt the
provisions of this chapter to regulate the conduct of persons on County
property and within the boundaries of Bingham County pursuant to Idaho law,
including, but not limited to: Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-715, 31-716, 31-
801, 31-806, 31-807, 31-820, and 31-828, and article XII, section 2 of the
Constitution of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to protect and preserve real and personal property
belonging to Bingham County, to prohibit certain conduct which poses a risk to
people and property, and to promote, protect, and preserve the enjoyable use of
the property of Bingham County by all people entering onto such property. (Ord.
2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms and phrases used in this chapter shall carry
the following meanings:
COUNTY PARK: Real property which is routinely maintained by Bingham County for
the purposes of facilitating recreational activities or social congregation,
whether or not such property is specifically designated by Bingham County as a
park.
COUNTY PROPERTY: The following:
   A.   Any real or personal property which is owned by Bingham County;
   B.   Real or personal property in which Bingham County possesses an
interest, including, but not limited to, partial ownership, lease, or loan; and
   C.   Real or personal property owned by a private individual or another
government body which property is being used by or for the benefit of Bingham
County.
GREENBELT: The real property maintained by Bingham County upon which paved
paths or walkways are located, which paths or walkways extend from the City of
Blackfoot at Jensen's Grove to Rose Ponds and the City of Shelley from the
Shelley City Park to North Bingham County Park. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Employees of the Bingham County Parks and Recreation Department are
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter and are hereby vested with
the same authority as a peace officer to issue citations for a violation of the
provisions of this chapter. The granting of such authority shall not be
construed to minimize or restrict the ability of any State or County law
enforcement officer to also enforce the provisions of this chapter. Nor shall
the provisions of this section be construed to restrict or prohibit the
authority of State or local law enforcement officers to issue a citation or
complaint for a violation of any other State law or County ordinance.
   B.   Employees of the Bingham County Parks and Recreation Department and
peace officers having jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter
are authorized to command a person to immediately depart from a County park
when the employee or peace officer reasonably believes that the person is
committing or has committed a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Employees of the Bingham County Parks and Recreation Department and any
peace officer may take any reasonably necessary action to remove violators of
this chapter from a County park and to seize or confiscate any alcoholic
beverage, animal, firearm, imitation firearm, deadly weapon, fireworks, or
explosive device which is brought, possessed, or controlled on County property
in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to Bingham County
employees or agents or to contractors of Bingham County with respect to any act
or acts which are within the scope of their employment, agency or contract.
(Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-5: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverages within a County
park. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-6: ANIMALS:
   A.   Control Of Animal: No person shall bring, possess, or control an animal
within a County park except in areas that are specifically marked or designated
by Bingham County or its employees or agents to allow the presence of animals.
In circumstances in which a person is authorized by this section to have an
animal present in a County park, the animal shall at all times be held or
physically controlled by the person by some tangible means or device,
including, but not limited to, a leash.
   B.   Noise: No person shall encourage an animal located within a County park
to make a loud or disruptive noise, including, but not limited to, a dog
barking. In the event that an animal is making a loud or disruptive noise,
immediate action shall be taken to prohibit the animal from continuing to make
loud or disruptive noise, including, but not limited to, confining the animal
in a vehicle or trailer or removing the animal from the County park. The
persons responsible for taking such immediate action shall be the person who
brought the animal within the County park and any person possessing or
controlling the animal at any time it is making loud or disruptive noise.
   C.   Vicious Animals: No person shall bring a vicious animal within a County
park. A vicious animal shall be considered one which, by temperament,
disposition or action, is a threat to the safety, welfare or well being of any
person or other animal.
   D.   Allowing Threatening Manner Of Animal: No person bringing, possessing,
or controlling an animal within a County park shall allow or permit the animal
to act in a menacing or threatening manner. Nor shall any person bringing,
possessing, or controlling an animal within a County park fail to take measures
to prevent the animal from attacking or biting any person or other animal.
   E.   Removal Of Animal Feces: Every person bringing, possessing or
controlling an animal within a County park shall, without unnecessary delay,
pick up and dispose of any feces deposited by said animal upon County property.
(Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-7: CLOSURE OF COUNTY PROPERTY:
   A.   Closing Hours: No person shall remain upon or enter within a County
park after sunset or ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., whichever occurs sooner, and
before sunrise or eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., whichever occurs later. For
purposes of this section, "after sunset" and "before sunrise" shall include
that point in time at which the sun is below the horizon and no portion of it
is visible.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The provisions of this section also shall not apply to persons who
are paying to stay at designated overnight camping areas at a County park or
their guests, while such persons or guests are in the designated overnight
camping areas or while such persons or guests are entering or leaving the
County park where the overnight camping area is situated.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to law enforcement
officers or County employees in the course of their employment and duties.
(Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-8: FIRES:
   A.   No person shall build or maintain a fire within a County park, except
that persons may build, start, or maintain a fire within a County park when the
fire is located in a County built or maintained campfire pit, campfire box or
when the fire is located in a portable grill.
   B.   Persons building or maintaining a fire within a County park shall be
responsible for bringing their own wood or other combustible material to the
park for such purpose. No person shall use any fallen branches, trees or other
combustible materials found within the park for purposes of building or
maintaining a park. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-9: FIREARMS, IMITATION FIREARMS, AND DANGEROUS WEAPONS:
   A.   No Possession Unless Secured: No person shall possess any firearm,
imitation firearm, or dangerous weapon within a County park, unless such
firearm, imitation firearm, or dangerous weapon is secured inside the passenger
compartment or trunk of a motor vehicle or is secured inside the interior of
any other vessel or camp trailer. "Secured" as used in this section shall mean
that the firearm, imitation firearm, or dangerous weapon is not visible to any
person.
   B.   Defense: It shall not be a defense to this section that the firearm,
imitation firearm, or dangerous weapon was inoperable at the time of the
violation. Nor shall it be a defense to this section that the person possesses
a permit to possess a concealed weapon.
   C.   Not Applicable To Law Enforcement: This section shall not apply to
Federal law enforcement officials or law enforcement officers employed in the
State of Idaho.
   D.   Definitions:
    DANGEROUS WEAPON: A weapon, device, instrument, material, or substance,
animate or inanimate, that is used for, or is readily capable of, causing
serious bodily injury or death, except that such term does not include a pocket
knife with a blade of less than two and one-half inches (2.5") in length or a
kitchen utensil when being used to prepare or consume food.
   FIREARMS: Any device which will or is designed to or may readily be
converted to expel a projectile by the action of gunpowder or any other
explosive substance or by the action of compressed gas. The term shall include
any BB gun, pellet gun or paint ball gun. The term "firearm" shall not include
devices used to propel water, unless the device falls within the definition of
"imitation firearm" as set forth herein.
   IMITATION FIREARM: Any manmade object which closely imitates or mimics a
bullet firing or shotgun shell firing pistol, revolver, rifle or shotgun. (Ord.
2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-10: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVE DEVICES:
   A.   Possession Of Fireworks Or Explosive Devices: No person shall possess
or detonate any firework or explosive device within a County property. Nor
shall any person intentionally cause any firework or explosive device to enter
the airspace of any County park or to become situated within a County park.
   B.   County Employee Permitted: It shall not be a violation of this section
if the person is a County employee and the conduct of such person is in
furtherance of and in the course of employment. Nor is it a violation of this
section if the person is acting pursuant to the directives of or with the
express permission of the Board of County Commissioners.
   C.   Definitions:
    EXPLOSIVE DEVICES: Any device, mechanism or combination of combustible or
explosive matter which is capable of causing injury to persons or property if
it were to explode or detonate.
   FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation.
Fireworks include items classified as common or special fireworks by the United
States Bureau of Explosives or contained in the regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation and designated as UN 0335 1.3G or UN 0336
1.4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any automotive safety flares, toy
guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed for use with toy guns or toy
cannons, party poppers, pop-its or other devices which contain twenty five
hundredths (0.25) of a grain or less of explosive substance. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-
8-2012)
7-5-11: GOLFING:
No person shall golf or strike a golf ball within a County park or cause a golf
ball to land within a County park. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-12: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
   A.   No person shall wilfully expose his or her genitals or his or her
buttocks in a County park. Nor shall any female wilfully expose her breast or
breasts, within a County park.
   B.   Nor shall any person perform any sexual act, simulated sexual act, or
engage in masturbation or simulated masturbation within a County park. (Ord.
2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-13: INJURING, VANDALIZING OR TAMPERING WITH PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall wilfully and maliciously injure, destroy, vandalize,
damage, mutilate or deface any County property, whether real or personal
property, which is located within a County park.
   B.   No person shall wilfully and maliciously tamper with, manipulate,
adjust, or conceal any personal property or fixture which is County property
and which is located within a County park.
   C.   No person shall wilfully tamper with, manipulate, adjust, or conceal
any device or sign which is located within a County park and which device or
sign is intended to regulate the activities of persons within or using a County
park or for the purpose of providing warning or directives to persons using a
County park. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-14: LITTERING:
   A.   No person shall throw, leave, deposit, dump or place debris, garbage,
litter, rubbish or trash on County property within a County park except in a
public garbage receptacle.
   B.   Where public receptacles are not provided, any person bringing debris,
garbage, litter, rubbish and refuse within a County park or creating such
debris, garbage, litter, rubbish or refuse shall secure such items so as to
keep them from being blown, carried, scattered or deposited by the elements on
or about the County park and shall, thereafter, carry away such item from the
County park. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-15: MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON HILLS, GRASSY AREAS, PATHWAYS, OR GREENBELTS:
   A.   No person shall operate a motorized vehicle on the surface of any hill,
grade or incline within a County park when the surface is wet or composed of
mud.
   B.   No person shall operate a motorized vehicle on any maintained grassy
area. For purposes of this section, "maintained grassy area" shall mean areas
that contain planted grass and are routinely watered and mowed.
   C.   No person shall operate a motorized vehicle on any paved or concrete
pathway or walkway within a County park. Nor shall any person operate a motor
vehicle on, upon or within any greenbelt area.
   D.   The provision of this section shall not apply to a roadway maintained
by Bingham County for the purpose of ingress into and egress from a County park
by motorized vehicles. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-16: NOISE ABATEMENT AND DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   No person shall maliciously and wilfully disturbs the peace or quiet of
persons within a County park by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous or
offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to
fight or fighting.
   B.   No person shall use any stereo system or sound amplification located
within any motor vehicle, vessel, or trailer in a manner that the sound from
such system can be heard by another at a distance of ten feet (10') or more
from such motor vehicle, vessel or trailer. Nor shall any person use any stereo
system or sound amplification located within any motor vehicle, vessel, or
trailer in a manner or at a level that a person located outside the confines of
such motor vehicle, vessel, or trailer can physically feel, other than through
the physical process of hearing, the vibration caused by sound emitted from
such system. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-17: RESTROOM USE:
No person shall urinate or defecate within a County park except in a public or
private restroom or toilet. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-18: SIGNS AND WARNING PLACARDS:
Every person within a County park shall obey all signs and warning placards
located within the park. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-19: SPEED OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall operate a motorized vehicle within a County park at a
speed in excess of any posted speed limit.
   B.   Regardless of the posting or nonposting of any speed limit within a
County park, no person shall operate a motorized vehicle within a County park
at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and
having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. (Ord. 2012-05,
7-8-2012)
7-5-20: TRESPASS:
   A.   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to immediately depart a County
park when commanded to do so by an employee of the Bingham County Parks and
Recreation Department, their authorized agent, or a peace officer having
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   No person who has been commanded to depart from a County park, as set
forth in subsection A of this section, shall return and reenter a County park
within one year of being told to depart. A person shall not be in violation of
the provisions of this subsection if they have obtained written permission to
return and reenter County parks by the Board of County Commissioners or the
Department Head of the Parks and Recreation Department and the person complies
with any and all restrictions or requirements imposed by the Board or the
Department Head of the Parks and Recreation Department as a condition of return
and reentry.
   C.   No person shall enter upon any County park within one year of pleading
guilty or being found guilty of a misdemeanor violation of this chapter. This
provision shall apply even though the person's sentence has been suspended or
withheld or the plea withdrawn as part of the granting of a withheld judgment.
The starting date for the one year period begins the day after the person
enters a plea of guilty or the court or jury renders a verdict of guilty. (Ord.
2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-21: WATERCRAFT:
   A.   "Watercraft" includes any vessel which uses an outboard motor or an
inboard motor as a source of power and which is designed to be used or operated
as a means of transportation on water.
   B.   No person shall operate a watercraft within any area adjacent to or
abutting a County park which is marked, signed or otherwise designated or
identified as a harbor or mooring area at a speed in excess of five (5) miles
per hour or at a speed which would cause a wake or swell to exceed two inches
(2") vertical height.
   C.   No person shall operate a watercraft upon any pond, lake or river
adjacent to a County park at a speed or in a manner likely to result in injury
to the property of another or in a manner likely to result in serious bodily
injury or death to another person. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-22: SWIMMING RESTRICTIONS AND USE OF BOAT DOCKS AND BOAT RAMPS:
   A.   Boat ramps are only to be used for launching or removing watercraft. No
person shall be in the water within fifty feet (50') of a boat ramp unless
assisting a watercraft to be removed or launched from the boat ramp. The point
at which the water touches the shore is the point at which the fifty foot (50')
restriction begins.
   B.   No person shall be in the water within fifty feet (50') of a boat dock.
   C.   At parks in which a swimming area has been designated, no person shall
swim or wade in the water outside that swimming area. A swimming area is an
area of water between the shoreline and a buoy line or an area which is
identified by a sign or placard as being an area designated for swimming. (Ord.
2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-23: PERMISSION AS A DEFENSE:
No person shall be prosecuted under the provisions of this chapter for any
action or inaction when such action or inaction is authorized, in writing, by a
majority of the Board of Bingham County Commissioners. Action or inaction shall
be considered authorized when such written authorization gives express
permission to act in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter
or when the act or inaction is clearly implied by the express language of the
resolution. A claim that a person was authorized by a single County
Commissioner or any agent or employee of Bingham County shall not be a defense
to a violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-24: ATTEMPTED VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to attempt to violate
any provision of this chapter. The punishment for an attempt to violate the
provisions of this chapter shall be the same as for the crime attempted to be
committed. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-25: AIDING, ASSISTING OR ENCOURAGING VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to aid, assist, counsel
or encourage another person to commit a violation of the provisions of this
chapter. The punishment for aiding, assisting, counseling or encouraging
another person to commit a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
the same as for the crime which was aided, assisted, counseled or encouraged to
be committed. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
7-5-26: CLASSIFICATION OF VIOLATION AS INFRACTION OR MISDEMEANOR:
   A.   Except in those circumstances where this chapter specifically
designates a violation to be considered a misdemeanor, a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered an infraction. A violation of
the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor when the violator
has previously been convicted of at least two (2) violations of this chapter or
when the violation is one relating to sections
7-5-9, "Firearms, Imitation Firearms, And Dangerous Weapons",
7-5-10, "Fireworks And Explosive Devices",
7-5-13, "Injuring, Vandalizing Or Tampering With Property", and
7-5-20, "Trespass", of this chapter.
   B.   A violation of this chapter constituting an infraction shall be
punishable by a fixed and set fine of thirty five dollars ($35.00) when the
violator has not previously been convicted of a violation of this chapter.
   C.   A violation of this chapter constituting an infraction shall be
punishable by a fixed and set fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) when the
violator has previously been convicted of an infraction or misdemeanor
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012)
   D.   A violation of this chapter constituting a misdemeanor shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   E.   The fine amounts set forth in this section for infraction offenses
shall be separate and apart from any court costs assessed pursuant to Idaho
Code section 31-3201A or any other provision of law. The fine amount set forth
for a misdemeanor offense shall be separate and apart from any court costs
assessed pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-3201A or any other provision of
Idaho law. (Ord. 2012-05, 7-8-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
UNIFORM ADDRESS SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Administrator, Enforcement Official
7-6-4: Application Of Chapter; Exception
7-6-5: Street Naming Standards
7-6-6: Numbering Of Structures
7-6-7: Posting Of Address Marker/Sign Required
7-6-8: Prohibited Acts
7-6-9: Penalty
7-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, general
welfare, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of the County and the
inhabitants thereof; and to provide for:
   A.   The coordination of a street name and number grid system, and house
numbering within this system; and
   B.   The proper administration and enforcement of this chapter by defining
the powers and duties of the approval authorities. (Ord. 83-5, 9-19-1983, eff.
9-19-1983)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms mean:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
naming and numbering streets and roads who is appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners to administer this chapter.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission.
DEPARTMENT: The Bingham County Roads and Bridges Department.
OFFICIAL ADDRESS NUMBER MAP: The map or maps showing all the streets within the
County with the official address number grid systems and address numbers
maintained by the Administrator.
OFFICIAL STREET NAME LIST: The list containing the official street names within
the County composed of all street names approved by the Board and filed with
and maintained by the Administrator.
OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP: The map or maps showing all the streets within the
County with the official name shown thereon approved by the Board and filed
with and maintained by the Administrator.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association, or corporation.
PLAT: A subdivision plat.
STREET: A right-of-way providing vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent
properties and includes the terms street, drive, court, circle, private street,
road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, or any other such terms. (Ord. 83-5, 9-
19-1983, eff. 9-19-1983)
7-6-3: ADMINISTRATOR, ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
   A.   The Board shall appoint the County Engineer as Administrator to carry
out the provisions as herein specified.
   B.   The Administrator shall compile and maintain an official street name
list on an official street name map subject to the approval by resolution of
the Board of County Commissioners, and the list shall be filed in the County
Engineering Office.
   C.   The Administrator shall use the existing street names in the County as
a guide in determining street names.
   D.   The Administrator shall adopt standards for all signs. The signs will
bear the names and street numbers.
   E.   All address numbers shall be assigned by the Administrator; and no
other person or organization, public or private, shall assign any address
number to any residence, business or industry or use. (Ord. 83-5, 9-19-1983,
eff. 9-19-1983)
7-6-4: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER; EXCEPTION:
This chapter shall apply to all lands within the unincorporated area of Bingham
County, subject to the following exception:
The Fort Hall Indian Reservation will only be addressed on approval by the
appropriate authority. (Ord. 83-5, 9-19-1983, eff. 9-19-1983)
7-6-5: STREET NAMING STANDARDS:
The naming of streets in the County shall be subject to the following
standards:
   A.   There shall be no duplication of street names by sound or spelling
within the County. There shall further be no duplication of County street names
by sound or spelling with street names from the various cities in Bingham
County.
   B.   Differentiation of street names shall not be by the addition of
suffixes such as road, street, avenue, lane, etc.
   C.   Names for future right-of-way dedications shall be suggested by the
person or agency proposing the right-of-way dedication subject to all the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Where the proposed street is on the alignment and continuation of the
existing street, or where the street is on the same alignment but not linked to
any existing street, the name of the existing street shall be applied.
   E.   If a street makes a very obvious change in direction, a new street name
may be assigned.
   F.   Street names for proposed subdivisions shall be shown on the
preliminary and final plats in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
and:
      1.   No plats shall be approved until all provisions of this chapter have
been complied with.
      2.   North-south numbers shall begin with 0 at the Township line between
Township 2 and 3 South;
      3.   East-west numbers will begin with 0 at the range line between Ranges
35 and 36 East. (Ord. 83-5, 9-19-1983, eff. 9-19-1983)
7-6-6: NUMBERING OF STRUCTURES:
   A.   Addresses will consist of a house number with a compass direction
followed by a street number and a compass direction using the Lyman System.
   B.   The owner and/or occupants of every dwelling and business are advised
to place or install in a position visible from the street, address numbers as
hereinafter directed.
   C.   The general requirements for the structure numbering system are as
follows:
      1.   Only one number shall be assigned to each business use or dwelling
unit.
      2.   All address numbers shall be assigned for the street upon which the
structure fronts.
      3.   All units located on the northerly and westerly sides of the streets
shall be even numbers, all addresses located on the southerly and easterly
sides of the streets shall be odd numbers. These requirements may be varied in
the case of winding streets or circles when a street has been determined to be
running in predominantly one direction, the numbering shall not be changed if
the street changes direction.
      4.   Numbers on private lanes or streets not accepted into the road
system may be named and numbered as provided in this chapter. Signs on these
private lanes or streets shall be of such design as approved by the Board as to
indicate that they are not in the County road system. (Ord. 83-5, 9-19-1983,
eff. 9-19-1983)
7-6-7: POSTING OF ADDRESS MARKER/SIGN REQUIRED:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to authority granted to the
Board of County Commissioners by Idaho Code section 31-715.
   B.   Posting Marker/Sign Required: Each owner of real property in the
unincorporated area of Bingham County, except for the Fort Hall Indian
Reservation, shall post and maintain an address marker/sign for each residence
or commercial building that is individually designated as an address on their
property. Said address marker/sign shall contain the house or commercial
address to that property and shall be located on the street upon which the
property fronts. The address marker/sign needs to be located on the house side
of the driveway twenty five feet (25') from the road centerline back to the
property line. The address marker/sign is to be maintained according to County
standards as being reflective, visible, and free from obstructions.
   C.   Addresses For New Construction: When property owners and/or contractors
make application to Bingham County for a building permit, the numbers needed to
construct an address marker/sign will be provided at no cost to the owner by
the County. Said address marker/sign is to be posted prior to the beginning of
construction.
   D.   Existing Residences: Property owners whose address marker/sign is
missing, faded, or damaged are required by this chapter to obtain the numbers
necessary by contacting the Bingham County Planning and Zoning Office. They
will verify the property owner's address and then the Bingham County Public
Works Department will supply the necessary numbers for the address marker/sign
at a minimal fee charged to the property owner. (Ord. 2004-07, 8-10-2004)
   E.   Noncompliance: It shall be a misdemeanor subject to a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code, to be imposed upon any real property owner failing to
comply with or violating any of the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2004-07,
8-10-2004; amd. 2018 Code)
7-6-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with the official
street name map.
   B.   To remove, alter, change or deface a street name sign erected or
installed as provided herein.
   C.   To place or post an address not approved or assigned. (Ord. 83-5, 9-19-
1983, eff. 9-19-1983)
7-6-9: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person who shall violate or fail to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 83-5, 9-19-1983, eff. 9-19-1983; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 7
WINTER MAINTENANCE, ROAD CLOSURE AND SNOWMOBILE TRAILS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Short Title
7-7-2: Authority And Purpose
7-7-3: Definitions
7-7-4: Designation Of Roads For Snowmobile Use
7-7-5: Penalties
7-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the BINGHAM COUNTY WINTER MAINTENANCE, ROAD
CLOSURE AND SNOWMOBILE TRAIL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2019-02, 1-9-2019)
7-7-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority set forth in Idaho
Code sections 31-714 and 67-7109(5).
   B.   The purposes of this chapter are to establish a procedure for the
County Commissioners to close County roads to conventional motor vehicle
traffic and open and designate County roads for the exclusive operation of
snowmobiles and recreation vehicles registered as snowmobiles during weather
and snow conditions that permit snowmobile operation, and for the subsequent
opening of the roads to conventional motor vehicle traffic and closing to use
by snowmobiles and recreation vehicles registered as snowmobiles when weather
and snow conditions permit, and to provide a procedure for the County
Commissioners to open and close County roads to concurrent use by snowmobiles
and recreation vehicles registered as snowmobiles together with conventional
motor vehicle traffic, and to provide that it be done periodically by
resolution and order of the Commissioners according to weather and snow
conditions and public need, and to provide that snowmobiles and recreation
vehicles registered as snowmobiles operating on roads concurrently with
conventional motor vehicles must obey State and County rules of the road and
traffic laws and to provide for criminal penalties upon violation of the
Commissioners' order. (Ord. 2019-02, 1-9-2019)
7-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions shall conform to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 71. If the
definitions of this section are different from those found in title 67, chapter
71, Idaho Code shall control.
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR ATV: Means any recreational motor vehicle designed for
or capable of traveling off developed roadways and highways with three (3) or
more tires and fifty inches (50") or less in width, having a wheelbase of sixty
one inches (61") or less, has handlebar steering and a seat designed to be
straddled by the operator.
BONA FIDE SNOWMOBILE PROGRAM: Means services or facilities as approved by the
department that will benefit snowmobilers such as snowmobile trail grooming,
plowing and maintaining snowmobile parking areas and facilities, and trail
signing.
CONVENTIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE: Means any self-propelled vehicle, except a
snowmobile or an ATV, UTV, or motorcycle which are registered as snowmobiles
and have been equipped with tracks and designed primarily for travel on snow or
ice or snowmobile trail grooming equipment.
HIGHWAY: See section 40-109, Idaho Code, but excepting public roadway as
defined in this section.
MOTORBIKE: Means any self-propelled two (2) wheeled motorcycle or motor-driven
cycle, excluding tractor, designed for or capable of traveling off developed
roadways and highways and also referred to as trailbikes, enduro bikes, trials
bikes, motocross bikes or dual purpose motorcycles.
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Means an all-terrain vehicle, motorbike, specialty off-
highway vehicle or utility type vehicle as defined in Idaho Code 67-7101.
PUBLIC ROADWAY: Means all portions of any highway which are controlled by an
authority other than the Idaho Transportation Department.
RECREATION VEHICLE: Means a general term encompassing ATVs, motorbikes, UTVs,
snowmobiles, sleds, and some specialty off-highway vehicles.
SLED: Shall mean any device or sled drawn by any animal including dogs.
SNOWMOBILE: Means any self-propelled vehicle under two thousand (2,000) pounds
unladened gross weight, designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or over
natural terrain, which may be steered by tracks, skis, or runners.
SPECIALTY OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Means any vehicle manufactured, designed or
constructed exclusively for off-highway operation that does not fit the
definition of an all-terrain vehicle, utility type vehicle or motorbike as
defined in Idaho Code 67-7101.
UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE OR UTV: Means any recreational motor vehicle other than an
ATV, motorbike or snowmobile as defined in this section, designed for and
capable of travel over designated roads, traveling on four (4) or more tires,
maximum width less than seventy four inches (74"), maximum weight less than two
thousand (2,000) pounds, and having a wheelbase of one hundred ten inches
(110") or less. A utility type vehicle must have a minimum width of fifty
inches (50"), a minimum weight of at least nine hundred (900) pounds or a
wheelbase of over sixty one inches (61"). Utility type vehicle does not include
golf carts, vehicles specially designed to carry a disabled person, implements
of husbandry as defined in section 49-110(2), Idaho Code, or vehicles otherwise
registered under title 49, Idaho Code. A "utility type vehicle" or "UTV" also
means a recreational off- highway vehicle or ROV. (Ord. 2019-02, 1-9-2019)
7-7-4: DESIGNATION OF ROADS FOR SNOWMOBILE USE:
   A.   Closing And Reopening County Roads: The Bingham County Commissioners
shall have authority to close any County road to conventional motor vehicle
traffic and to open and designate the same road for the exclusive use of
snowmobiles or ATVs, UTVs, or motorcycles, or conventional motor vehicles all
of which are registered as snowmobiles and have been equipped with tracks and
designed primarily for travel on snow or ice. The County Commissioners shall
also have authority to provide for the subsequent reopening of any County road
to conventional motor vehicle traffic and closing for use by snowmobiles or
ATVs, UTVs, or motorcycles or conventional motor vehicles all of which are
registered as snowmobiles and have been equipped with tracks by written
resolution and order of the Bingham County Commissioners duly passed and noted
in their official minutes. Administrative government vehicles and/or snow
grooming equipment shall not be subject to road closure requirements.
   B.   Joint And Concurrent Use Of County Roads: The Bingham County
Commissioners shall have authority to open or close any County road to joint
and concurrent use by snowmobiles or ATVs, UTVs, or motorcycles or conventional
motor vehicles all of which are registered as snowmobiles and have been
equipped with tracks and conventional motor vehicles by written resolution and
order of the Bingham County Commissioners duly passed and noted in their
official minutes.
   C.   Rules Of The Road And Traffic Laws: The operators of snowmobiles or
ATVs, UTVs, or motorcycles or conventional motor vehicles all of which are
registered as snowmobiles and have been equipped with tracks operating on
County roads open to joint and concurrent use with conventional motor vehicles
shall obey all State and County rules of the road and all traffic laws which
apply to conventional motor vehicles registered with the State of Idaho.
   D.   Automatic Closure And Reopening:
      1.   As of November 15th of each year there shall be no further
maintenance of the County and public roads into and around the Blackfoot
Mountain range area, beginning from both the narrows in Wolverine Canyon,
Blackfoot River Road at Cedar Creek Road, and at Bone Road or any other
entrance to the area.
      2.   As of December 1st of each year to April 30th of the succeeding year
the County and public roads into and around the Blackfoot Mountain range area,
beginning from both the narrows in Wolverine Canyon, Blackfoot River Road at
Cedar Creek Road, and at Bone Road or any other entrance to the area shall be
automatically closed to conventional motor vehicles pursuant to this section
and opened to snowmobiles or ATVs, UTVs, or motorcycles or conventional motor
vehicles all of which are registered as snowmobiles and have been equipped with
tracks and designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or to sleds.
      3.   In years with agreeable weather, the Board of County Commissioners
may pass by majority decision, a resolution decreeing that certain roads are to
remain open to conventional motor vehicles contrary to the automatic closures
listed directly above.
         a.   Each such resolution and order shall include the following
information:
            (1)   A description of the road use change.
            (2)   The date and time when the road use change shall take effect.
            (3)   A description of the portion of the road to which the use
change shall apply.
         b.   Each resolution and order shall be preserved by the County Clerk
for a period no less than ten (10) years from the date of its passage.
         c.   Upon passage of a resolution and order changing a road use, the
Board of County Commissioners shall cause a notice of the road use change to be
posted at each public entrance to the roadway and shall publish a copy of the
notice of the road use change in one issue of a newspaper of general
circulation within the County.
      4.   Said road signs shall read as follows:
ROAD CLOSED DEC. 1ST - APRIL 30TH, TRAVEL PROHIBITED EXCEPT BY SNOWMOBILE
VIOLATORS SHALL BE SUBJECT TO CRIMINAL AND CIVIL PENALTIES
Bingham County Ordinance 2019-02
   (Ord. 2019-02, 1-9-2019)
7-7-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Each person who operates or controls a conventional motor
vehicle upon a County or public road which has been closed to conventional
motor vehicle use by this chapter or by resolution and order of the Bingham
County Commissioners shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by
a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned in the
County Jail for not more than six (6) months, or both fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Civil Penalty: Additionally each person who operates or controls a
conventional motor vehicle upon a County or public road which has been closed
to conventional motor vehicle or causes and requires the County to respond or
to plow the road after the road has been closed may be subject to reimburse
Bingham County for labor and equipment costs incurred by Bingham County in
responding to and plowing out any persons, livestock, or equipment or for any
other reason. These costs shall be calculated using all current Federal
overtime and FEMA rates. (Ord. 2019-02, 1-9-2019)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Adoption Of The 2018 International Building Code With Bingham County
Amendment
8-1-1-1: Purpose
8-1-1A: Adoption Of The 2018 International Building Code With State Amendments
(IDAPA 24.39.30)
8-1-2: Adoption Of The 2018 International Residential Code With Bingham County
Amendments As Follows
8-1-2-1: Bingham County’s Design Criteria Covering All Residential Buildings
8-1-2A: Adoption Of The 2018 International Residential Code With State
Amendments (IDAPA 24.30.39)
8-1-3: Adoption Of The 2018 International Energy Conservation Code With State
Amendments (IDAPA 24.39.30)
8-1-3-1: Purpose
8-1-3A: Adoption Of The 2018 International Energy Conservation Code With
Bingham County's Following Amendment
8-1-4: Adoption Of The 2018 International Existing Building Code With No
Amendments
8-1-4-1: Purpose
8-1-4-2: Applicability
8-1-5: Adoption Of The International Mechanical Code With State Amendments
8-1-6: Adoption Of The 2018 International Fuel Gas Code With State Amendments
8-1-7: Part V (Mechanical) And Part VI (Fuel Gas) Of The International
Residential Code For One (1)- and Two (2)-Family Dwellings
8-1-8: Installation OF Manufactured Homes
8-1-1: ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE WITH BINGHAM COUNTY
AMENDMENT:
8-1-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide certain minimum standards and
requirements to safeguard life or limb, health, property, and the public
welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, erection,
alteration, moving, demolition, quality of materials, use, occupancy, location,
and maintenance of all buildings and structures, where not regulated by the
One-and-Two-Family Dwelling Building Code or the Existing Building Code, in the
County.
   A.   Bingham County’s design criteria for minimum ground snow load: Delete
section 1608.2 and replace with the following: 1608.2 Ground Snow Loads. The
ground snow loads to be used in determining the design snow loads for roofs
shall use the following equation; elevation in feet above mean sea level
divided by 100, minus 5 equals the ground snow load. (Elevation/100-5 = Pg)
(2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-1A: ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE WITH STATE AMENDMENTS
(IDAPA 24.39.30):
   A.   Delete Section 305.2.3 and replace with the following: 305.2.3 Twelve
(12) or fewer children in a dwelling unit. A facility such as the above within
a dwelling unit and having twelve (12) or fewer children receiving such day
care shall be classified as a Group R-3 occupancy or shall comply with the
International Residential Code. (3-20-20)T
   B.   Delete Section 308.2.4 and replace with the following: 308.2.4 Five (5)
or fewer persons receiving custodial care. A facility with five (5) or fewer
persons receiving custodial care shall be classified as a Group R-3occupancy or
shall comply with the International Residential Code. (3-20-20)T
   C.   Delete Section 308.3.2 and replace with the following: 308.3.2 Five (5)
or fewer persons receiving medical care. A facility with five (5) or fewer
persons receiving medical care shall be classified as a Group R-3occupancy. (3-
20-20)T
   D.   Delete Section 308.5.4 and replace with the following: 308.5.4 Persons
receiving care in a dwelling unit. A facility such as the above within a
dwelling unit and having twelve (12) or fewer children receiving day care or
having five (5) or fewer persons receiving custodial care shall be classified
as a Group R-3 occupancy or shall comply with the International Residential
Code.(3-20-20)T
   E.   Delete Section 310.4 and replace with the following: 310.4 Residential
Group R-3. Residential Group R-3 occupancies where the occupants are primarily
permanent in nature and not classified as Group R-1, R-2, R-4, E or I,
including: 1. Buildings that do not contain more than two (2) dwelling units.
2. Care facilities that provide accommodations for five (5) or fewer persons
receiving personal care, custodial care or medical care. 3. Congregate living
facilities (nontransient) with sixteen (16) or fewer occupants, including
boarding houses (nontransient), convents, dormitories, fraternities and
sororities, and monasteries. 4. Congregate living facilities (transient) with
ten (10) or fewer occupants, including boarding houses (transient). 5. Dwelling
units providing day care for twelve (12) or fewer children. 6. Lodging houses
(transient) with five (5) or fewer guest rooms and ten (10) or fewer occupants.
(3-20-20)T
   F.   Delete Section 310.4.1 and replace with the following: 310.4.1 Care
facilities within a dwelling. Care facilities for twelve (12) or fewer children
receiving day care or for five (5) or fewer persons receiving personal care or
custodial care that are within a one- or two-family dwelling are permitted to
comply with the International Residential Code.(3-20-20)T
   G.   Delete footnote e under Table 2902.1 Minimum Number of Required
Plumbing Fixtures and replace with the following: e For business occupancies,
excluding restaurants, and mercantile occupancies with an occupant load of
thirty (30) or fewer, service sinks shall not be required. (3-20-20)T
   H.   Delete footnote f from Table 2902.1 Minimum Number of Required Plumbing
Fixtures, add footnote f in the header row of the column in Table 2902.1
labeled “Drinking Fountains,” and delete footnote f under Table 2902.1 and
replace with the following: f Drinking fountains are not required for an
occupant load of thirty (30) or fewer.(3-20-20)T
   I.   Delete Section 3113.1 and replace with the following: 3113.1 General.
The provisions of this Section shall apply to relocatable buildings.
Relocatable buildings manufactured after the effective date of this code shall
comply with the applicable provisions of this code; title 39, chapter 43, Idaho
Code; and IDAPA 07.03.03.Exception: This Section shall not apply to
manufactured housing used as dwellings.(3-20-20)T (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-2: ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE WITH BINGHAM COUNTY
AMENDMENTS AS FOLLOWS:
8-1-2-1: BINGHAM COUNTY’S DESIGN CRITERIA COVERING ALL RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide certain minimum standards and
requirements to safeguard life or limb, health, property, and the public
welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, erection,
alteration, moving, demolition, quality of materials, use, occupancy, location,
and maintenance of all buildings and structures, where not regulated by the
Building Code or the Existing Building Code, in the County.
   A.   Table R301.2(1) of the 2012 International Residential Code shall be
amended to read as follows:
      Ground Snow Load=42+ (See IBC Section 1608.2); Wind Speed = 90 (Basic);
Topographic effects = no; Seismic Design Category = C or D; Weathering =
Severe; Frost Line Depth = 30"; Termite = Slight/Moderate; Winter Design
Temperature = -6°; Ice Shield = Yes; Flood Hazards = FIRM 16001810/17/79; Air
Freezing Index = 2000; Mean Annual Temp = 45°F (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-2A: ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE WITH STATE
AMENDMENTS (IDAPA 24.30.39):
   A.   Delete the exception under Section R101.2 Scope, and replace with the
following:
      Exception: The following shall also be permitted to be constructed in
accordance with this code: 1. Owner-occupied lodging houses with five (5) or
fewer guestrooms and ten (10) or fewer total occupants. 2. A care facility with
five (5) or fewer persons receiving custodial care within a dwelling unit or
single-family dwelling. 3. A care facility for five (5) or fewer persons
receiving personal care that are within a dwelling unit or single-family
dwelling. 4. A care facility with twelve (12) or fewer children receiving day
care within a dwelling unit or single-family dwelling. (3-20-20)T
   B.   Delete Section R104.10.1 Flood hazard areas.(3-20-20)T
   C.   Delete item number 7 under the “Building” subheading of Section R105.2
Work exempt from permit, and replace with the following: 7. Prefabricated
swimming pools that are not greater than four (4) feet (one thousand, two
hundred nineteen (1219) mm) deep.(3-20-20)T
   D.   Add the following as item number 11 under the “Building” subheading of
Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit: 11. Flag poles. (3-20-20)T
   E.   Delete Section R109.1.3 and replace with the following: R109.1.3
Floodplain inspections. For construction in areas prone to flooding as
established by Table R301.2(1), upon placement of the lowest floor, including
basement, the building official is authorized to require submission of
documentation of the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement,
required in Section R322.(3-20-20)T
   F.   Delete Section R301.2.1.2 Protection of Openings.(3-20-20)T
TABLE R302.1(1) - EXTERIOR WALLS
 
EXTERIOR WALL ELEMENT           MINIMUM FIRE-RESISTANCE MINIMUM FIRE SEPARATION
                                RATING                  DISTANCE
                                1 hour-tested in
                                accordance with ASTM E
                                119, UL263, or Section
Walls Fire-resistance rated     703.3 of the            < 3 feet
                                International Building
                                Code with exposure from
                                both sides
      Not fire-resistance rated 0 hours                 3 feet
 
   G.   Delete Table R302.1(1) and replace with the following:
EXTERIOR WALL ELEMENT MINIMUM FIRE- RESISTANCE RATING MINIMUM FIRE SEPARATION
                                                      DISTANCE
EXTERIOR WALL ELEMENT                   MINIMUM FIRE-       MINIMUM FIRE
                                        RESISTANCE RATING   SEPARATION DISTANCE
                                        1 hour on the
                                        underside, or heavy
                  Fire-resistance rated timber or fire      2 feet to < 3 feet
Projections                             retardant-treated
                                        wood a, b
                  Not fire-resistance   0 hours             3 feet
                  rated
                  Not allowed           N/A                 < 3 feet
Openings in walls 25% maximum of wall   0 hours             3 feet to 5 feet
                  area
                  Unlimited             0 hours             5 feet
                                        Comply with Section < 3 feet
Penetrations      All                   R302.4
                                        None required       3 feet
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
N/A = Not Applicable
a The fire-resistance rating shall be permitted to be reduced to zero (0) hours
on the underside of the eave overhang if fireblocking is provided from the wall
top plate to the underside of the roof sheathing.
b The fire-resistance rating shall be p33rmitted to be reduced to zero (0)
hours on the underside of the rake overhang where gable vent openings are not
installed.   (2-20-20)T
   H.   Delete Section R302.13 Fire protection of floors.(3-20-20)T
   I.   Delete Section R303.4 and replace with the following: R303.4 Mechanical
Ventilation. Dwelling units shall be provided with whole-house mechanical
ventilation in accordance with Section M1505.4. (3-20-20)T
   J.   Delete the exception under Section R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire
sprinkler systems, and replace with the following: Exception: Automatic
residential fire sprinkler systems shall not be required in townhouses where
either two (2) one (1)-hour fire-resistance-rated walls or a common two (2)-
hour fire-resistance rated wall, as specified in item number 2 of Section
R302.2.2 is installed between dwelling units or when additions or alterations
are made to existing townhouses that do not have an automatic residential fire
sprinkler system installed.(3-20-20)T
   K.   Delete Section R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire
sprinkler systems.(3-20-20)T
   L.   Delete the exceptions under Section R314.2.2 Alterations, repairs and
additions, and replace with the following: Exceptions: 1. Work involving the
exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not limited to, replacement of
roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of windows or doors, or the
addition of a porch or deck or electrical permits, are exempt from the
requirements of this section. 2. Installation, alteration or repairs of
plumbing or mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of this
section. (3-20-20)T
   M.   Delete the exceptions under Section R315.2.2 Alterations, repairs and
additions, and replace with the following: Exceptions: 1. Work involving the
exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not limited to, replacement of
roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of windows or doors, or the
addition of a porch or deck or electrical permits, are exempt from the
requirements of this section. 2. Installation, alteration or repairs of non
combustion plumbing or mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of
this section.(3-20-20)T
   N.   Delete Section R322.1.10 As-built elevation documentation. (3-20 -20)T
   O.   Delete Section R322.2.1 and replace with the following: R322.2.1
Elevation requirements. 1. Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas,
including flood hazard areas designated as Coastal A Zones, shall have the
lowest floors elevated to or above the base flood elevation. 2. In areas of
shallow flooding (AO Zones), building sand structures shall have the lowest
floors (including basement) elevated to a height above the highest adjacent
grade of not less than the depth number specified in feet (mm) on the FIRM, or
not less than two (2) feet (610 mm) if a depth number is not specified. 3.
Basement floors that are below grade on all sides shall be elevated to or above
baseflood elevation. Exception: Enclosed areas below the design flood
elevation, including basements with floors that are not below grade on all
sides, shall meet the requirements of Section R322.2.2.(3-20-20)T
   P   Delete subparagraph 2.1 of Section R322.2.2 Enclosed area below design
flood elevation, and replace with the following: 2.1. The total net area of all
openings shall be at least one (1) square inch (645 mm2) for each square foot
(0.093 m2) of enclosed area, or the opening shall be designed and the
construction documents shall include a statement that the design and
installation of the openings will provide for equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.(3-20-20)T
   Q.   Delete Tables R403.4 Minimum Depth (D) and Width (W) of Crushed Stone
Footings (inches),R403.1(1) Minimum Width and Thickness for Concrete Footings
for Light-Frame Construction (inches), R403.1(2)Minimum Width and Thickness for
Concrete Footings for Light-Frame Construction and Brick Veneer (inches),
andR403.1(3) Minimum Width and Thickness for Concrete Footings with Cast-In-
Place or Fully Grouted Masonry Wall Construction (inches).(3-20-20)T
   R.   Add the following as Table R403.1:
   TABLE R403.1
   MINIMUM WIDTH OF CONCRETE, PRECAST, OR MASONRY FOOTINGS (inches)a
 LOAD-BEARING VALUE OF SOIL (psf)
 1,500 2,000 3,000 4,000
        LOAD-BEARING VALUE OF SOIL (psf)
        1,500 2,000 3,000 4,000
Conventional light-frame construction
1-Story 12    12    12    12
2-Story 15    12    12    12
3-Story 23    17    12    12
4-inch brick veneer over light frame or 8-inch hollow concrete masonry
1-Story 12    12    12    12
2-Story 21    16    12    12
3-Story 32    24    16    12
8-inch solid or fully grouted masonry
1-Story 16    12    12    12
2-Story 29    21    14    12
3-Story 42    32    21    16
For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479kPa.
a Where minimum footing width is twelve (12) inches, use of a single wythe of
solid or fully grouted twelve (12)-inch nominal concrete masonry units is
permitted.   (3-20-20)T
   S.   Delete Section R403.1.1 and replace with the following: R403.1.1
Minimum size. Minimum sizes for concrete and masonry footings shall be as set
forth in Table R403.1 and Figure R403.1(1). The footing width (W) shall be
based on the load bearing value of the soil in accordance with Table R401.4.1.
Spread footings shall be at least six (6) inches in thickness (T). Footing
projections (P) shall be at least two (2) inches and shall not exceed the
thickness of the footing. The size of footings supporting piers and columns
shall be based on the tributary load and allowable soil pressure in accordance
with Table R401.4.1. Footings for wood foundations shall be in accordance with
the details set forth in Section R403.2 and Figures R403.1(2) and R403.1(3).(3-
20-20)T
   T.   Delete Section R602.10 and replace with the following: R602.10 Wall
bracing. Buildings shall be braced in accordance with this Section or, when
applicable Section R602.12, or the most current edition of APA System Report
SR-102 as an alternate method. Where a building, or portion thereof, does not
comply with one (1) or more of the bracing requirements in this Section, those
portions shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Section R301.1.
(3-20-20)T (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-3:  ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE WITH STATE
AMENDMENTS (IDAPA 24.39.30):
8-1-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum regulations for energy-
efficient buildings using prescriptive, performance-based, or energy rating
index compliance alternative provisions. The provisions of this code shall
regulate the design and construction of building envelopes for adequate thermal
resistance and low air leakage, including the design and selection of
mechanical systems, service water-heating systems, pools and spas, electrical
equipment, power, and lighting systems in order to enhance the efficient use
and conservation of energy in new and existing building construction.
   A.   Add the following as Section C101.5.2: C101.5.2 Industrial, electronic,
and manufacturing equipment. Buildings or portions thereof that are heated or
cooled exclusively to maintain the required operating temperature of
industrial, electronic, or manufacturing equipment shall be exempt from the
provisions of this code. Such buildings or portions thereof shall be separated
from connected conditioned space by building thermal envelope assemblies
complying with this code.(3-20-20)T
   B.   Add the following as an exception under Section C402.5 Air leakage-
thermal envelope (Mandatory): Exception: For buildings having over fifty
thousand (50,000) square feet of conditioned floor area, air leakage testing
shall be permitted to be conducted on less than the whole building, provided
the following portions of the building are tested and their measured air
leakage is area-weighted by the surface areas of the building envelope:1. The
entire floor area of all stories that have any spaces directly under a roof. 2.
The entire floor area of all stories that have a building entrance or loading
dock. 3. Representative above-grade wall sections of the building totaling at
least twenty-five percent (25%) of the above-grade wall area enclosing the
remaining conditioned space. Floor area tested under subparagraphs 1. or 2. of
this exception shall not be included in the twenty-five percent (25%) of above-
grade wall sections tested under this subparagraph.(3-20-20)T
   C.   Add the following as exception number 7 under Section C403.5
Economizers (Prescriptive): 7.Unusual outdoor air contaminate conditions -
Systems where special outside air filtration and treatment for the reduction
and treatment of unusual outdoor contaminants, makes an air economizer
infeasible. (3-20-20)T
   D.   Delete Table C404.5.1 and replace with the following:
TABLE C404.5.1
PIPING VOLUME AND MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTHS
NOMINAL PIPE SIZE  VOLUME (liquid ounces MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTH (feet)
(inches)           per foot length)      Public lavatory Other fixtures and
                                         faucets         appliances
TABLE C404.5.1
PIPING VOLUME AND MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTHS
NOMINAL PIPE SIZE  VOLUME (liquid ounces MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTH (feet)
(inches)           per foot length)      Public lavatory    Other fixtures and
                                         faucets            appliances
1/4                0.33                  31                 50
5/16               0.5                   N/A - non-standard 50
                                         size
3/8                0.75                  17                 50
½                 1.5                   10                 43
5/8                2                     7                  32
3/4                3                     5                  21
7/8                4                     N/a - non-standard 16
                                         size
1                  5                     3                  13
1 1/4              8                     2                  8
1 1/2              11                    1                  6
2 or larger        18                    1                  4
For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm; 1 foot = 304.8 mm; 1 liquid ounce = 0.030 L;
1 gallon = 128 ounces.   (3-20-20)T
   E.   Delete the rows in Table R402.1.2 for climate zones “5 and Marine 4"
and “6" and replace with the following:
 
TABLE R402.1.2
INSULATION AND FENESTRATION REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENTa
                                                    Woo d Mass                  Slabd
Climate Fenestration Skylightb Glazed       Ceiling Frame Wall   Floor Basemenc R-    Crawlspacec
Zone    U-Factorb    U- Factor Fenestration R-Value Wall  R-     R-    Wall R-  Value Wall R-
                               SHCb,e               R-    Valuei Value Value    &     Value
                                                    Value                       Depth
                                                    20 or                       10, 2
5       0.32         0.55      NR           38      13+5  13/1 7 30g   15/19    ft    15/19
                                                    h
                                                    22 or                       10, 4
6       0.30         0.55      NR           49      13+5  15/2 0 30g   15/19    ft    15/19
                                                    h
 
F.   Add the following as footnote k to the title of Table R402.1.2 -
Insulation and Fenestration Requirements by Component: k. For residential log
home building thermal envelope construction requirements see Section R402.6.
(3-20-20)T
G.   Delete the rows in Table R402.1.4 for climate zones “5 and Marine 4" and
“6" and replace with the following:
 
TABLE R402.1.4
EQUIVALENT U-FACTORSa
                              Ceiling Frame  Mass    Floor  Basement Crawlspace
Climate Fenestration Skylight U-      Wall   Wall U- U-     Wall U-  Wall U-
zone    U-factor     U-factor factor  U-     factorb factor factor   factor
                                      factor
5       0.32         0.55     0.030   0.060  0.082   0.033  0.050    0.055
6       0.30         0.55     0.026   0.057  0.060   0.033  0.050    0.055
 
   H.   Delete Section R402.4.1 and replace with the following: R402.4.1
Building thermal envelope. 1. Until June 30, 2021, the building thermal
envelope shall comply with Sections R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and either
Section R402.4.1.2 (Testing) or Section R402.4.1.3 (Visual inspection). 2.
Effective July 1, 2021, the building thermal envelope of a minimum of twenty
percent (20%) of all new single-family homes constructed by each builder shall
comply with Section R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and Section R402.4.1.2 (Testing).
The authority having jurisdiction may: 2.1. Determine how to enforce this
requirement, starting with the fifth house and continuing with each subsequent
fifth house. 2.2. Waive this requirement if significant testing indicates the
five (5) air changes per hour (ACH) requirement is consistently being met or
exceeded (resulting in a lower ACH). 2.3. Grant exceptions to this requirement
in rural areas where testing equipment is not available or cost effective. 3.
Effective July 1, 2021, the building thermal envelope of eighty percent (80%)
of all new single-family homes constructed by each builder shall comply with
Section R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and either Section R402.4.1.2 (Testing) or
Section R402.4.1.3 (Visual inspection). 4. The sealing methods between
dissimilar materials shall allow for differential expansion and contraction.
(3-20-20)T
   I.   Delete Section R402.4.1.1 and replace with the following: R402.4.1.1
Installation. The components of the building thermal envelope as listed in
Table R402.4.1.1 shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions and the criteria listed in Table R402.4.1.1, as applicable to the
method of construction.(3-20-20)T
   J.   Delete Section R402.4.1.2 and replace with the following: R402.4.1.2
Testing. Testing building envelope tightness and insulation installation shall
be considered acceptable when tested air leakage is less than five(5) air
changes per hour (ACH) when tested with a blower door at a pressure of 33.5 psf
(50 Pa). Testing shall occur after rough in and after installation of
penetrations of the building envelope, including penetrations for utilities,
plumbing, electrical, ventilation and combustion appliances. Testing shall be
conducted in accordance with RESNET/ICC 380, ASTM E 779 or ASTM E 1827 and
reported at a pressure of 0.2-inch w.g. (50 Pascals). During testing: 1.
Exterior windows and doors, fireplace and stove doors shall be closed, but not
sealed. 2. Dampers shall be closed, but not sealed, including exhaust, intake,
makeup air, backdraft and flue dampers. 3. Interior doors shall be open. 4.
Exterior openings for continuous ventilation systems and heat recovery
ventilators shall be closed and sealed. 5. Heating and cooling system(s) shall
be turned off. 6. HVAC ducts shall not be sealed. 7.Supply and return registers
shall not be sealed.(3-20-20)T
   K.   Add the following as Section R402.4.1.3: R402.4.1.3 Visual inspection.
Building envelope tightness and insulation installation shall be considered
acceptable when the items listed in Table R402.4.1.1, applicable to the method
of construction, are field verified. Where required by code official an
approved party independent from the installer of the insulation shall inspect
the air barrier and insulation.(3-20-20)T
   L.   Add the following as Section R402.6: R402.6 Residential log home
thermal envelope. Residential log home construction shall comply with Section
R401 (General), Section R402.4 (Air leakage), Section R402.5 (Maximum
fenestration U-factor and SHGC), Section R403.1 (Controls), the mandatory
sections of Sections R403.3through R403.9, Section R404 (Electrical Power and
Lighting Systems), and either 1., 2., or 3. as follows: 1. SectionsR402.2
through R402.3, Section R403.3.1 (Insulation), Section R404.1 (Lightning
equipment), and Table R402.6
   M.   Add the following as Table R402.6
 
TABLE R402.6
LOG HOME PRESCRIPTIVE THERMAL ENVELOPE REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENT
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
                                                          Min.                   Slab   Crawl
Climate    Fenestration Skylight Glazed           Ceiling Average Floor Basement R-     Space
Zone       U-factora    U-       FenestrationSHGC R-value Log     R-    Wall R-  value  Wall
                        factor                            Size in value valued   &      R-
                                                          Inches                 Depthb valued
5, 6 -
High                                                                             10, 4
efficiency 0.32         0.60     NR               49      5       30    15/19    ft.    10/13
equipment
pathc
5          0.32         0.60     NR               49      8       30    10/13    10, 2  10/13
                                                                                 ft.
6          0.30         0.60     NR               49      8       30    15/19    10, 4  10/13
                                                                                 ft.
a The fenestration U-factor column excludes skylights. The SHGC column applies to all glazed
fenestration.
b R-5 shall be added to the required slab edge R-values for heated slabs.
c 90% AFUE natural gas or propane. 84% AFUE oil, or 15 SEER heat pump heating equipment (zonal
electric resistance heating equipment such as electric base board electric resistance heating
equipment as the sole source for heating is considered compliant with the high efficiency
equipment path).
d “15/19” means R-15 continuous insulated sheathing or the interior or exterior of the home or
R-19 cavity insulation at the interior of the basement wall. “15/19” shall be permitted to be
met with R-13 cavity insulation on the interior of the basement wall plus R-5 continuous
insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the home. “10/13” means R-10 continuous
insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the home or R-13 cavity insulation at the
interior of the basement wall.
   (3-20-20)T
   N.   Delete Section R403.5.3 and replace with the following: R403.5.3 Hot
water pipe insulation (Prescriptive). Insulation for hot water piping with a
thermal resistance, R-value, of not less than R-3 shall be applied to the
following: 1. Piping serving more than one (1) dwelling unit. 2. Piping located
outside the conditioned space. 3. Piping located under a floor slab. 4. Buried
piping. 5. Supply and return piping in recirculation systems other than demand
recirculation systems. (3-20-20)T
   O.   Delete Section R404.1 and replace with the following: R404.1 Lighting
equipment (Mandatory). A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the lamps in
permanently installed lighting fixtures shall be high-efficacy lamps or a
minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the permanently installed lighting
fixtures shall contain only high efficacy lamps.(3-20-20)T
   P.   Delete Section R406.3 and replace with the following: R406.3 Energy
Rating Index. The Energy Rating Index (ERI) shall be determined in accordance
with RESNET/ICC 301. Energy used to recharge or refuel a vehicle used for
transportation on roads that are not on the building site shall not be included
in the ERI reference design or the rated design.
   Q.   Delete Table R406.4 and replace with the following:
 
Table R-406.4 - Maximum Energy Rating Index
Climate Zone Energy Rating Indexa
5            68
6            68
a Where on-site renewable energy is included for compliance using ERI analysis
of Section R406.4, the building shall meet the mandatory requirements of
Section R406.2, and the building thermal envelope shall be greater than or
equal to the levels of efficiency and SHGC in Table R402.1.2 or Table R402.1.4
of the 2015 International Energy Conservation Code.   (3-20-20)T
(2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-3A: ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE WITH
BINGHAM COUNTY’S FOLLOWING AMENDMENT:
Purpose: There is a conflict between the Energy Code and the International
Residential Code. This clarifies that in residential buildings stud cavities
and floor systems can be used as part of an air return plenum.
   A.   An exception to Section R403.3.5 shall be added as follows:
      Exception: Building-framing cavities used as ducts or plenums shall
comply with Section M1601.1.1 of the International Residential Code
      (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-4:  ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE WITH NO
AMENDMENTS:
8-1-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations to allow for the use of
alternative methods from those contained in the Building Code and the One-And-
Two-Family Dwelling Building Code in order to comply with and conform to those
minimum requirements necessary to safeguard the health, safety, property, and
public welfare insofar as they are affected by the repair, alteration, change
of occupancy, addition, or relocation of existing buildings. (2020-10, 12-23-
2020)
8-1-4-2: APPLICABILITY:
This code shall apply to the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition
and relocation of existing buildings, regardless of occupancy, subject to the
criteria set forth in sections 1 through 3 herein. (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-5:  ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE WITH STATE AMENDMENTS:
International Mechanical Code. The 2018 Edition, including appendix “A,”
(herein IMC) is adopted and incorporated by reference with the following
amendments: (3-20-20)T
   A.   Where differences occur between the IMC and Title 54, Chapter 50, Idaho
Code and IDAPA 07, Title 07, the provisions in Idaho Code and IDAPA rules
apply. (3-20-20)T
   B.   All references to the International Plumbing Code (IPC) are construed
as referring to the Idaho State Plumbing Code (ISPC) as adopted and amended by
the Idaho State Plumbing Board. (3-20-20)T
   C.   All references to the International Code Council Electrical Code (ICC
EC) are construed as referring to the National Electrical Code (NEC) as adopted
and amended by the Idaho State Electrical Board. (3-20-20)T
   D.   Section 109. Delete. (3-20-20)T
   E.   Section 202 Definitions. Delete the definitions provided in the code
for the terms identified herein this paragraph and replace with the following:
(3-20-20)T
      i.   Light-Duty Cooking Appliance. Light-duty cooking appliances include
gas and electric ovens(including standard, bake, roasting, revolving, retherm,
convection, combination convection/steamer, countertop conveyorized baking/
finishing, deck, pastry, and electric and gas conveyor pizza ovens), electric
and gas steamjacketed kettles, electric and gas pasta cookers, electric and gas
compartment steamers (both pressure and atmospheric) and electric and gas
cheesemelters.(3-20-20)T
      ii.   Medium-Duty Cooking Appliance. Medium-duty cooking appliances
include electric discrete element ranges (with or without oven), electric and
gas hot-top ranges, electric and gas griddles, electric and gas double sided
griddles, electric and gas fryers (including open deep fat fryers, donut
fryers, kettle fryers and pressure fryers), electric and gas tilting skillets
(braising pans) and electric and gas rotisseries.(3-20-20)T
   F.   Section 401.1 Scope. Add the following: Exception: The principles
specified in ASHREA 62-2010may be used as an alternative to this chapter to
demonstrate compliance with required ventilation air for occupants.(3-20-20)T
   G.   Section 504.8.1 Material and size. Add the following exception: Dryer
duct may be constructed of 0.013 (30 gauge) or equivalent if prefabricated
0.016 (28 gauge) ducts and fittings are not available. (3-20-20)T
   H.   Table 603.4 Duct Construction Minimum Sheet Metal Thickness for Single
Dwelling Units. Add the following exception to the Table: Round duct, enclosed
rectangular ducts and fittings less than fourteen (14) inches may be
constructed of 0.013 (30 gauge) or equivalent if prefabricated 0.016 (28 gauge)
ducts and fittings are not available. (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-6:  ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE WITH STATE AMENDMENTS:
International Fuel Gas Code. The 2018 Edition, including appendixes “A, B, C,
and D,” (herein IFGC) is adopted and incorporated by reference with the
following amendments: (3-20-20)T
   A.   Where differences occur between the IFGC and Title 54, Chapter 50,
Idaho Code and IDAPA 07, Title 07, the provisions in Idaho Code and IDAPA rules
apply.(3-20-20)T
   B.   All references to the International Plumbing Code (IPC) are construed
as referring to the Idaho State Plumbing Code (ISPC) as adopted and amended by
the Idaho State Plumbing Board. (3-20-20)T
   C.   All references to the International Code Council Electrical Code (ICC
EC) are construed as referring to the National Electrical Code (NEC) as adopted
and amended by the Idaho State Electrical Board. (3-20-20)T
   D.   Section 109. Delete. (3-20-20)T
   E.   Section 406.4. Change the last sentence to: Mechanical gauges used to
measure test pressure must have a range such that the highest end of the scale
is not greater than two (2) times the test pressure nor lower than one and one-
half (1.5) times the test pressure.(3-20-20)T
   F.   Section 406.4.1. Test Pressure. Not less than twenty (20) psig (140kPa
gauge) test pressure is required for systems with a maximum working pressure up
to ten (10) inches water column. For systems with a maximum working pressure
between ten (10) inches water column and ten (10) psig (70kPa gauge); not less
than sixty (60) psig (420kPa gauge) test pressure is required. For systems over
ten (10) psig (70kPa gauge) working pressure, minimum test pressure may be no
less than six (6) times working pressure.(3-20-20)T
   G.   Section 406.4.2. The test duration may not be less than twenty (20)
minutes. (3-20-20)T
   H.   Add a new section 503.4.1.2 as follows: Testing. All plastic pipe
within a dwelling used for venting flue gases must be tested at five (5) psi
for fifteen (15) minutes. (3-20-20)T
   I.   Section 505.1.1. Addition. An interlock between the cooking appliance
and the exhaust hood system is not be required for appliances that are of the
manually operated type and are factory equipped with standing pilot burner
ignition systems. (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-7: PART V (MECHANICAL) AND PART VI (FUEL GAS) OF THE INTERNATIONAL
RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE (1)- AND TWO (2)-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
The 2018 Edition, including appendixes “A, B, C, and D,” (herein IRC) is
adopted and incorporated by reference with the following amendments: (3-20-20)T
   A.   Where differences occur between the IRC and Title 54, Chapter 50, Idaho
Code, and IDAPA 07, Title 07, Chapter 01, the provisions in Idaho Code and
IDAPA rules apply.(3-20-20)T
   B.   All references to the International Plumbing Code (IPC) are construed
as referring to the Idaho State Plumbing Code (ISPC) as adopted and amended by
the Idaho State Plumbing Board. (3-20-20)T
   C.   All references to the International Code Council Electrical Code (ICC
EC) are construed as referring to the National Electrical Code (NEC) as adopted
and amended by the Idaho State Electrical Board. (3-20-20)T
   D.   Add the following as section M1201.3 and section G2402.4 (201.4):
Alternative materials, design and methods of construction equipment. The
provisions of this part of the code are not intended to prevent the
installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of
construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such
alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design or method of
construction must be approved where the authority having jurisdiction finds
that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for
the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code.
Compliance with the specific performance-based provisions of this part of the
code in lieu of specific requirements of this code will also be permitted as an
alternate. (3-20-20)T
   E.   Add the following as section M1201.3.1 and section G2402.4.1 (201.4.1):
Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the
provisions of this part of the code, or evidence that a material or method does
not conform to the requirements of this part of the code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the authority having
jurisdiction has the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance to be
made at no expense to the jurisdiction. Test methods are as specified in this
code or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and
accepted test methods, the authority having jurisdiction approves the testing
procedures. Tests must be performed by an approved agency. Reports of such
tests must be retained by the authority having jurisdiction for the period
required for retention of public records. (3-20-20)T
   F.   Add the following as section M1203.1: Carbon monoxide alarms. For new
construction, an approved carbon monoxide alarm must be installed outside of
each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms in
dwelling units within which fuel-fired appliances are installed and in dwelling
units that have attached garages. (3-20-20)T
   G.   Add the following as section M1203.2: Where required in existing
dwellings. Where work requiring a permit occurs in existing dwellings that have
attached garages or in existing dwellings within which fuel-fired appliances
exist, carbon monoxide alarms must be provided in accordance with Subsection
004.03.f. of these rules. (3-20-20)T
   H.   Add the following as section M1203.3: Alarm requirements. Single
station carbon monoxide alarms must be listed as complying with UL 2034 and
must be installed in accordance with this code and the manufacturer’s
installation instructions. (3-20-20)T
   I.   Section M1502.4.1 Material and size. Add the following exception: Dryer
duct may be constructed of 0.013 (30 gauge) or equivalent if prefabricated
0.016 (28 gauge) ducts and fittings are not available. (3-20-20)T
   J.   Delete Section M1502.4.2 Duct Installation and replace with the
following: Exhaust ducts must be supported at four (4) foot (1,219 mm)
intervals and secured in place. The insert end of the duct must extend into the
adjoining duct or fitting in the direction of airflow. Ducts must not be joined
with screws or similar fasteners that protrude into the inside of the duct. (3-
20-20)T
   K.   Table M1601.1.1 (2) Gauges of Metal Ducts and Plenums Used for Heating
or Cooling. Add the following exception: Round duct, enclosed rectangular ducts
and fittings less than fourteen (14) inches may be constructed of 0.013 (30
gauge) or equivalent if prefabricated 0.016 (28 gauge) ducts and fittings are
not available. (3-20-20)T
   L.   Section G2417.4 (406.4). Change the last sentence to: Mechanical gauges
used to measure test pressure must have a range such that the highest end of
the scale is not greater than two (2) times the test pressure nor lower than
one and one-half (1.5) times the test pressure.(3-20 -20)T
   M.   Section G2417.4.1 (406.4.1). Test Pressure. Not less than twenty (20)
psig (one hundred forty (140)kPa gauge) test pressure is required for systems
with a maximum working pressure up to ten (10) inches water column. For systems
with a maximum working pressure between ten (10) inches water column and ten
(10) psig(seventy (70) kPa gauge), not less than sixty (60) psig (four hundred
twenty (420) kPa gauge) test pressure is required. For systems over ten (10)
psig (seventy (70) kPa gauge) working pressure, minimum test pressure may be no
less than six (6) times working pressure. (3-20-20)T
   N.   Section G2417.4.2 (406.4.2). The test duration may not be less than
twenty (20) minutes. (3-20-20)T
   O.   Add a new section G2427.4.1.2 as follows: Testing. All plastic pipe
within a dwelling used for venting flue gases must be tested at five (5) psi
for fifteen (15) minutes. (3-20-20)T (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-1-8: INSTALLATION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES:
Manufactured Homes as define by Idaho state law and inspected by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), shall not be subject to the enforcement
provisions of the aforesaid Building Codes, but shall be regulated and
inspected as prescribed in Title 44, Chapter 22 of the Idaho Code. The owner,
or agent of the owner, must apply for and receive, an Installation Permit prior
to placing any Manufactured Home on their property. No structural modifications
may be made to any Manufactured Home or Manufacturers Installation Instructions
unless a written site-specific structural analysis from a State of Idaho
Certified Engineer or Architect has been approved, verifying the modifications
compatibility with the Manufactured Home. All additions or alterations to any
Manufactured Home must comply with all Building Code requirements. Multiple
sections of Manufactured or Mobile Homes as well as Modular Buildings shall not
be combined together or used for any other purpose except as approved by HUD at
the time of manufacture. The Building Official or appointed representative is
hereby authorized to permit, inspect and collect fees, as established by the
governing body, for Manufactured Homes placed in Bingham County. Mobile or
Manufactured Homes not bearing a HUD certification label shall not be allowed
except as provided for by Title 44 Chapter 25 of Idaho Code. (2020-10, 12-23-
2020)
CHAPTER 2
PERMITS AND FEES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permit Fees
8-2-1: PERMIT FEES:
Applicants shall pay permit, plan review, Mechanical, Zoning, Appeal, and
Division Right fees in amounts to be determined by Resolution by the Board of
County Commissioners. All fee amounts shall be maintained in a Planning and
Zoning Fee schedule. All permits required under this Ordinance require fees to
be paid prior to a permits being issued or any action taken, unless specified
otherwise herein. (2020-10, 12-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRIC SERVICE APPLICATION; PERMIT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definition
8-3-2: Application For Electric Service
8-3-3: Waiver
8-3-4: Refusal To Furnish Electric Power
8-3-1: DEFINITION:
Whenever used in this chapter, the word “structure” shall be construed to mean:
   A.   Any new building to which electric service has not previously been
furnished.
   B.   Any new or used mobile home to which electric service has not
previously been furnished to it on the present site of such mobile home. (Ord.
79-2, 6-25-1979; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-3-2: APPLICATION FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE:
No property owner in Bingham County, nor any person acting on behalf of said
property owner, may use electric service in any structure situated within said
County without first securing a building permit, zoning permit or waiver permit
with respect to the construction, erection, or placement of such structure.
(Ord. 79-2A, 10-22-1979; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-3-3: WAIVER:
In the event the necessity of securing a building or zoning permit is subject
to waiver, the property owner or his agent shall first secure such waiver
before making application for electric service as provided in section 8-3-2 of
this chapter. (Ord. 79-2, 6-25-1979; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-3-4: REFUSAL TO FURNISH ELECTRIC POWER:
No person, firm or corporation shall furnish electric service, power or energy
to any structure in the County of Bingham without first securing the number of
the building permit, zoning permit or waiver secured by the owner of the
structure to which service is to be furnished. (Ord. 79-2A, 10-22-1979; amd.
Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS, PENALTIES, AND EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Agricultural Exemptions
8-4-2: Required State Permits
8-4-3: Severability
8-4-4: Penalty
8-4-5: Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions
8-4-6: Effective Date
8-4-1: AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTIONS:
Agricultural buildings, as defined by the International Building Code, are
exempt from the building codes adopted herein but shall remain subject to
placement requirements and permits established by zoning regulations. (Ord.
2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-4-2: REQUIRED STATE PERMITS:
   A.   Prior to issuance of a building permit for residential or commercial
structures where septic waste water services will be developed or required on-
site, the County shall first receive a septic permit from the State of Idaho
Department of Public Health verifying the parcel is a viable site for septic
services. If a waste water connection is made to a municipal line or via other
entity, a will-serve letter shall be received from the connecting entity prior
to issuing a building permit.
   B.   Prior to issuance of a occupancy permit for residential or commercial
structures, all required permits from any outside agency shall be approved and
permitted first before the county will issue any occupancy permits. These
permits will include, but are not limited to the State electrical and State
plumbing inspections and certifications which are completed and passed without
correction(s). (Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-4-3: SEVERABILITY:
This ordinance is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this
ordinance be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read
to carry out the purpose(s) of the ordinance before the declaration of partial
invalidity. (Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-4-4: PENALTY:
   A.   A violation of this ordinance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of Bingham County Code.
   B.   Remedies: In the event any action is taken or any construction or use
commenced in violation of the regulations of this chapter, the County, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent such unlawful action or construction to restrain, correct, or abate
such violation, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use. (Ord.
2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-4-5: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
All provisions of the former Title 8 of the ordinances of the County of Bingham
in its entirety. In addition any ordinances which conflict with the provisions
of this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. (Ord.
2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-4-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance shall be effective on January 1st, 2021 upon its passage and
publication as provided by law. (Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Established
8-5-2: Membership
8-5-3: Continuation Of Existing Membership
8-5-4: Disqualification
8-5-5: Procedures
8-5-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners hereby establishes the Building Board
of Appeals, to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations
made by the Bingham County building official.
   B.   Members of the Building Board of Appeals shall serve without salary or
wage. (Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-5-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The Building Board of Appeals shall consist of five (5) members
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners for a term of four (4) years.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint two (2) alternate
members who shall be called upon by the Building Board of Appeals Chairperson
to hear appeals during the absence of or disqualification of a member.
Alternate members shall possess the qualifications required for Building Board
of Appeals membership and shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years.
   C.   The qualifications of members shall be as follows:
      1.   Three (3) of the members shall be registered design professionals
with civil engineering, structural engineering, mechanical engineering,
geotechnical engineering or architectural experience; provided, however, that
no more than two (2) members will be chosen from the same profession.
      2.   One member shall be a general contractor with at least ten (10)
years’ experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of
work.
      3.   One member of the Building Board of Appeals shall have one of the
following qualifications: studying for a degree in construction management plus
two (2) years practical construction experience; passed the Fundamentals of
Engineering (FE) examination in civil or mechanical engineering plus two (2)
years practical civil, structural, geotechnical, or mechanical engineering
experience; or possess an Architectural Associate (AA) degree plus two (2)
years practical architectural experience.
   D.   All subsequent vacancies will be filled by appointments for the
remainder of the terms.
   E.   A member must reside in Bingham County during the entire term.
   F.   Members shall relinquish all voting rights upon the expiration of their
terms unless reappointed by the Board.
   G.   The building official shall be a nonvoting, ex officio member and act
as Secretary of the Building Board of Appeals. (Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-5-3: CONTINUATION OF EXISTING MEMBERSHIP:
The membership of the Building Board of Appeals shall continue to be those
members in office immediately preceding the enactment of this chapter. The
terms of such members shall continue until their previously designated time.
The enactment of this chapter shall have no effect on the business or
membership of the Building Board of Appeals. (Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
8-5-4: DISQUALIFICATION:
   A.   Members may be recommended for removal to the Board of County
Commissioners by a majority vote of the Building Board of Appeals. Cause may
include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Excessive conflicts of interest or continued conflicts of interest
which interfere with the member’s ability to perform his duties as interpreted
by the Board of County Commissioners.
      2.   False or misrepresenting statements by a member at the time of
application and appointment.
   B.   In the event that a member of the Building Board of Appeals does not
attend three (3) consecutive meetings, that person must submit an explanation
of the absences to both the Building Board of Appeals and the Board of County
Commissioners. The Building Board of Appeals or the Board of County
Commissioners, upon examination of the explanation, may require the immediate
resignation of that member for a high or inexcusable absentee rate. (Ord. 2020-
10, 12-23-2020)
8-5-5: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application For Appeal: Appeals of an order, decision or determination
made by the Bingham County building official shall be filed with the Director
of Planning and Zoning and Building Department within fifteen (15) days after
the date of the order, decision or determination of the Bingham County building
official, or it shall not be accepted. An application and fees, shall be
submitted to the Director on forms provided by the Bingham County Planning and
Zoning and Building Department.
   B.   Hearings: Hearings before the Building Board of Appeals shall be public
and shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth in title
1, chapter 6 of this Code.
   C.   Findings: The Building Board of Appeals shall make findings of fact and
conclusions of law in writing, stating the decision and the reasons for the
decision. The Building Board of Appeals shall sign and render all decisions and
findings in writing to the appropriate enforcement official and agency, the
appellant, and the building official within fifteen (15) days of the hearing.
   D.   Rules Of Order: The Building Board of Appeals shall adopt rules of
order that are consistent with the laws of the State of Idaho and this Code.
The Building Board of Appeals shall file its rules with the Bingham County
Recorder and the Board of County Commissioners.
   E.   Minutes: The Building Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings and keep a record of its examinations, findings, decisions and all
other official actions.
   F.   Quorum: A simple majority of the voting members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum. The concurring vote of a majority of a quorum present
shall be necessary in order to make a decision on any issue before the Building
Board of Appeals. (Ord. 2020-10, 12-23-2020)
TITLE 9
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
CHAPTER 1
BLACKFOOT AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Area Of City Impact Described
9-1-2: Applicability Of Chapter
9-1-3: Subdivision Review Process
9-1-4: Public Utilities
9-1-5: Commercial Development
9-1-6: Amendments
9-1-7: Enforcement
9-1-1: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIBED:
   A.   The Bingham County Comprehensive Plan text and map and the general
Bingham County zoning ordinance and zoning map are hereby amended to include
the following described premises as the City impact area for the City of
Blackfoot:
Part of Townships 2 and 3 South, Range 35 E.B.M. described as:
Beginning at the intersection of the North Bank of the Blackfoot River and the
West line of Section 17, T3S, R35 E.B.M. and running thence North along the
West line of Sections 17, 8 and 5 in T3S and continuing North along the West
line of Sections 32, 29 and 20 to the Northwest corner of Section 20, T2S, R35
E.B.M.; thence East along the North line of Sections 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 to
the Northeast corner of Section 24, T2S, R35 E.B.M.; thence South along the
East line of Sections 24 and 25 to the Southeast corner of Section 25, T2S, R35
E.B.M.; thence West along the South line of said Section 25 to the Northeast
corner of the West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of Section 36, T2S, R35 E.B.M.; thence
South along the West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of Section 36, T2S, R35 E.B.M. to the
Northeast corner of the West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of Section 1, T3S, R35 E.B.M.
to the Northeast corner of the West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of Section 1, T3S, R35
E.B.M.; thence continuing South along the West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of Section
1, T3S, R35 E.B.M. to the Southwest corner of said West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of
Section 1; thence East along the North line of Section 12, T3S, R35 E.B.M. to
the Northeast corner of said Section 12; thence South along the East line of
Sections 12 and 13, T3S, R35 E.B.M. to the Intersection point of the North bank
of the Blackfoot River; thence Westerly along the North bank of the Blackfoot
River through Sections 13, 14, 11, 10, 9, 8 and 17, T3S, R35 E.B.M. to the
point of beginning.
   B.   The area of City impact for the City of Blackfoot is further set out on
the land use map as Exhibit A on file in the County, and made a part hereof by
this reference. (Ord. 2002-08, 9-30-2002)
9-1-2: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Bingham County Zoning Ordinance: With the exception of items discussed
below, the planning and zoning ordinance of Bingham County, as amended, shall
apply to the impact area.
   B.   Adoption Of City Subdivision Ordinance: The substantive portions of the
subdivision ordinances of the City shall be adopted by the County to apply in
the area of City impact. The County's procedural requirements and process for
granting subdivision approval (as set forth in the County's planning and zoning
ordinance, as amended, and the Idaho Code) shall apply to all subdivision
applications to be located in the area of City impact. The County shall enforce
the substantive portions of the City's subdivision ordinance as it has been
made a part of the County planning and zoning ordinances.
   C.   Subdivision Procedure: The County's application and approval process
for the granting of subdivision approval shall apply. Nevertheless, to the
extent that the subdivision review process outlined in section
9-1-3 of this chapter differs from the County's application and approval
process, the procedures detailed in section
9-1-3 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2002-08, 9-30-2002)
9-1-3: SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Applications: Applications to locate a subdivision within the area of
City impact shall be made to the appropriate County agency pursuant to the
County's planning and zoning ordinance, as amended.
   B.   Application Fees: Fee requirements of the County shall apply to
applications to locate a subdivision within the area of City impact.
   C.   Referral Of Applications By County To City: Within three (3) days after
filing of the application, the County shall forward a copy of the subdivision
application to the City.
   D.   Review Of Application By City: The City's Engineering Department shall
review the application and forward comments and recommendations to the County
Planning Office within thirty (30) days of receipt of the application. The
County Planning and Zoning Administrator, or designee, shall be invited to
attend such review meeting.
   E.   County Review: Upon receiving comments and recommendations from the
City, the County shall review the application pursuant to the procedures
outlined in the County's planning and zoning ordinance, as amended.
   F.   Public Hearings: The County shall give written notice to the City of
all public hearings held with respect to the application. The City may attend
any public hearings as an interested party.
   G.   Review By City Of Preliminary And Final Plats: Prior to approval by the
County of preliminary or final plats, the City's Engineering Department shall
hold a review meeting and make formal written comments and recommendations to
the County. The County Planning and Zoning Administrator, or designee, shall be
invited to attend such review meeting.
   H.   Final Approval By County: The County Planning and Zoning Commission and
the Board of County Commissioners, in considering a proposed application,
preliminary plat or final plats shall give due regard to the comments and
recommendations of the City.
   I.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of Law: All findings of fact and
conclusions of law made by the County with respect to any application shall be
in writing and forwarded to the City.
   J.   Appeals: Appeals of the decisions of the County shall be handled
pursuant to the County's planning and zoning ordinance, as amended, and
applicable State laws. The City, as an interested party in the development of
the City impact area, shall have standing to appeal such decisions. (Ord. 2002-
08, 9-30-2002)
9-1-4: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
All subdivisions approved in the area of City impact shall be required to
connect to City sewer and water services if such are reasonably available. The
City, as an interested party in the development of the City impact area, shall
have standing to appeal such decisions. (Ord. 2002-08, 9-30-2002)
9-1-5: COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Applicable Ordinances: Commercial development and industrial use
development in the area of City impact shall be implemented under applicable
County planning and zoning ordinances.
   B.   Review Process: The review and comment provisions set forth in section
9-1-3, "Subdivision Review Process", of this chapter shall apply to
applications for commercial development and industrial use development in the
area of City impact.
   C.   Public Utilities: All commercial and industrial use development shall
be required to connect to City sewer and water services if such are reasonably
available. The City's fees, rules, ordinances, and regulations pertaining to
such services shall apply. (Ord. 2002-08, 9-30-2002)
9-1-6: AMENDMENTS:
In the event that the County or City wish to amend, repeal, or add provisions
to any Comprehensive Plan and/or ordinance which will have application in the
area of City impact, then notice shall be given to the other party at least
thirty (30) days prior to adoption of such an amendment, repeal or addition.
The City or County shall take into consideration the recommendations and
comments of the other with respect to any proposed changes to their
Comprehensive Plans and/or ordinances. If the City or County cannot agree on
the requested changes, then the procedures set forth In Idaho Code section 67-
6526 shall be implemented to resolve the dispute. (Ord. 2002-08, 9-30-2002)
9-1-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The County shall enforce the applicable planning and zoning ordinances in the
area of City impact. In doing so, the County shall give due regard and
consideration to the wishes of the City with respect to such enforcement. The
County shall also give due consideration to the interpretations of the City
regarding the provisions of the City's ordinances which are intended to be
adopted by the County as part of this chapter. (Ord. 2002-08, 9-30-2002)
CHAPTER 2
FIRTH AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Area Of City Impact Described
9-2-2: Applicability Of Chapter
9-2-3: Subdivision Review Process
9-2-4: Public Utilities
9-2-5: Commercial Development
9-2-6: Amendments
9-2-7: Enforcement
9-2-1: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIBED:
   A.   The Bingham County Comprehensive Plan text and map and the general
Bingham County zoning ordinance and zoning map are hereby amended to include
the following described premises as the City impact area for the City of Firth:
A portion of sections 31, 30 and 19, Township 1 South, Range 37 EBM; and
sections 23, 24, 25, 26, 35 and 36, Township 1 South, Range 36 EBM; Bingham
County, Idaho described as follows:
Beginning at the E 1/4 corner of Section 31, Township 1 South, Range 37 EBM;
thence West approximately 21/2 miles along the East-West centerline of section
31, Township 1 South, Range 37 EBM and Sections 36 and 35 of Township 1 South,
Range 36 EBM; to the center of said Section 35; thence North approximately 2
miles along the North-South centerline of Sections 35, 26 and 23, Township 1
South, Range 36 EBM to the Center of said Section 23; thence East along the
East-West centerline of Sections 23 and 24, Township 1 South, Range 36 EBM and
Section 19, Township 1 South, Range 37 EBM to the intersection point of the
Centerline of US Highway 91; thence Southwesterly following the centerline of
US Highway 91 to the Intersection point of the centerline of 800 North (Goshen
Road); thence East along the centerline of 800 North to the intersection point
of the centerline of the Reservation Canal; thence Southerly following the
centerline of the Reservation Canal to the intersection point of the East-West
centerline of Section 30; thence East along said East-West centerline to East
1/4 corner of said Section 30; thence South along the East section line of
Sections 30 and 31 of Township 1 South, Range 37 E.B.M. approximately 1 mile to
the Point of Beginning.
   B.   The area of City impact for the City of Firth is further set out on the
land use map as Exhibit A on file in the County, and made a part hereof by this
reference. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-9-2004)
9-2-2: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Zoning Ordinance: The zoning ordinances of the County, as amended from
time to time, shall apply in the impact area.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan: The Comprehensive Plan of the County, as amended
from time to time, shall apply in the impact area.
   C.   Subdivision Ordinance: The substantive portions of the subdivision
ordinances of the County, as amended from time to time, shall apply in the
impact area with City review and comment prior to County approval.
   D.   Subdivision Procedure: The County's application and approval process
for the granting of subdivision approval shall apply. Nevertheless, to the
extent that the subdivision review process outlined in section
9-2-3 of this chapter differs from the County's application and approval
process, the procedures detailed in section
9-2-3 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-9-2004)
9-2-3: SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Applications: Potential subdividers shall make application to the
appropriate County agency pursuant to the County's ordinances and shall include
the City as a reviewing agency for response.
   B.   Application Fees: Fee requirements of the County shall apply.
   C.   Review Of Application By City: The City's Public Works Department shall
review the application and forward comments and recommendations to the County
Planning Office within thirty (30) days of receipt of application. The County
Planning and Zoning Director shall be invited to attend such review meeting.
   D.   County Review: Upon receiving comments and recommendations from the
City, the County shall review the application pursuant to the procedures
outlined in the County's subdivision ordinance.
   E.   Public Hearings: The County shall give written notice to the City of
all public hearings held with respect to the application. The City may attend
any public hearings as an interested party.
   F.   Review By City Of Preliminary And Final Plats: Prior to approval by the
County of preliminary or final plats, the City's Public Works Department shall
hold a review meeting and make formal written comments and recommendations to
the County. The County Planning and Zoning Director shall be invited to attend
such review meeting.
   G.   Final Approval By County: The County Planning and Zoning Commission and
the Board of County Commissioners shall give due regard to the comments and
recommendations of the City to the proposed application and the preliminary and
final plats.
   H.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of Law: All findings of fact and
conclusion of law made by the County with respect to any application shall be
in writing and forwarded to the City.
   I.   Appeals: Appeals of the decisions of the County shall be handled
pursuant to the County's applicable ordinances. The City, as an interested
party in the development of the City impact area, shall have standing to appeal
such decisions. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-9-2004)
9-2-4: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
All subdivisions approved in the impact area shall be required to connect to
City sewer and water services if such are reasonably available such as being
within one thousand feet (1,000') of existing services or in an annexable area.
The City's fees, rules, ordinances, and regulations pertaining to such services
shall apply. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-9-2004)
9-2-5: COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
Commercial development and industrial use development in the impact area shall
be implemented under applicable County ordinance with comment and
recommendations from the City. All commercial and industrial development shall
be required to connect to City sewer and water services if such are reasonably
available such as being within one thousand feet (1,000') of existing services
or in an annexable area. The City's fees, rules, ordinances, and regulations
pertaining to such services shall apply. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-9-2004)
9-2-6: AMENDMENTS:
The County and City shall provide thirty (30) days' notice to each Governing
Board prior to amending, repealing, or adding provisions to any ordinance that
applies in the impact area. Each Governing Board shall take into consideration
the recommendations and comments of the other Governing Board with respect to
such changes to the ordinances. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-9-2004)
9-2-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The County shall enforce the applicable ordinances in the impact area and shall
give due regard and consideration to the wishes of the City with respect to
such enforcement. (Ord. 2004-02, 2-9-2004)
CHAPTER 3
SHELLEY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Area Of City Impact Described
9-3-2: Comprehensive Plan
9-3-3: Applicability Of Chapter
9-3-4: Subdivision Review Process
9-3-5: Amendments
9-3-6: Enforcement
9-3-1: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIBED:
   A.   The Bingham County Comprehensive Plan text and the general Bingham
County zoning ordinance are hereby amended to include the following described
premises as the City impact area for the City of Shelley:
Beginning at the intersection of the East Branch of the Snake River Valley
Canal and 1200 North (Baseline Rd.) thence heading West to the intersection
with the Snake River thence heading North and East follow the Snake River to
the intersection of the Snake River and 700 East; thence North to the
intersection of 1400 North (Country Club Rd.); thence East to the intersection
of 750 East (Hanson Rd.); thence North to the intersection of 1500 North
(Canyon Rd.); thence East to the intersection with the Snake River Valley
Canal; thence Southeast following the Snake River Valley Canal to Highway 91;
thence Southwest on Highway 91 to 1400 N (Country Club Rd.); thence East on
1400 N to the intersection of the Snake River Valley Canal; thence South and
West following the Snake River Valley Canal to the intersection of the East
Branch of the Snake River Valley Canal; thence follow the East Branch of the
Snake River Valley Canal South and East to the intersection of 1200 North
(Baseline Rd.) which was the point of beginning.
   B.   The area of City impact for the City of Shelley is further set out on
the map as Exhibit A on file in the County, and made a part hereof by this
reference. (Ord. 2006-05, 8-11-2006)
9-3-2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The parties agree that the Comprehensive Plan adopted by the City is
appropriate and necessary for purposes of implementing the provisions and
intent of this agreement. The parties understand that the County will need to
undergo the required legal procedures for amending the County's Comprehensive
Plan in order to bring it into conformity with that portion of the City's
Comprehensive Plan which affects the area of City impact. (Ord. 2006-05, 8-11-
2006)
9-3-3: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Bingham County Zoning Ordinance: Bingham County shall apply Bingham
County's zoning ordinance in the area of impact.
   B.   Adoption Of City Subdivision Ordinance: Upon the County receiving an
application for a zone change, special use permit, a variance or other
applications related to zoning issues within the impact area, the County shall
forward a copy of any such application to the City and the City shall have
thirty (30) days from the City's receipt of the application to review and
respond to any such application in writing to the County. The County shall then
proceed with the processing of the application consistent with the County's
procedures giving due regard to the City's response, if any.
   C.   Adoption Of City Subdivision Standards: The County agrees to require
all new subdivisions (residential, commercial, and industrial) located within
one-fourth (1/4) mile of the City of Shelley's City limits or all new
subdivisions located outside of one-fourth (1/4) mile of the City of Shelley's
City limits if the developer connects to the City's infrastructure to include
the following:
      1.   Curb.
      2.   Gutter.
      3.   Five foot (5') Portland type concrete sidewalk.
      4.   City approved street lights - maximum distance three hundred feet
(300'), monthly bill to be paid by the City of Shelley.
      5.   Municipal sewer and water, when accessible within three hundred feet
(300').
      6.   Reasonable stormwater drainage system.
      7.   Fire hydrants - maximum distance five hundred feet (500') if
Municipal system is available.
      8.   Right-of-way for future classification of street (measured from
property line to property line) as set forth:
Arterial - Eighty feet (80').
Collector - Sixty two feet (62').
Minor/local- Sixty two feet (62').
      9.   All streets to be constructed to design standards as set forth in
Exhibit B (on file in the County and made a part hereof by this reference).
      10.   Stub streets as needed for orderly future development.
      11.   Ten foot (10') utility easement along the front of each property
lot.
      12.   All structures must meet minimum setback requirements as set forth:
Residential - (Single-Family Dwelling):
Front property line: Thirty feet (30').
Back property line: Twenty five feet (25').
Side property line/lot line: Ten feet (10').
Side property line/ROW: Twenty five feet (25').
Side street property line: Fifteen feet (15').
Residential - (Two-Family Dwelling):
Front property line: Thirty feet (30').
Back property line: Twenty five feet (25').
Side property line: Eight inches (8") for each foot of building height, but not
less than seven and one- half feet (7.5') per side.
Side street property line: Fifteen feet (15').
Residential - (Multiple-Family Dwelling):
Front property line: Twenty feet (20').
Back property line: Twenty feet (20').
Side property line: Eight inches (8") for each foot of building height, but not
less than seven and one- half feet (7.5') per side.
Side street property line: Fifteen feet (15').
Commercial:
Front property line: Thirty feet (30').
Back property line: Zero feet (0')/twenty feet (20') if the property abuts a
residential zone.
Side property line: Zero feet (0').
Side street property line: Zero feet (0').
Manufacturing/Industrial:
Front property line: Ten feet (10').
Side property line: Zero feet (0').
Side street property line: Zero feet (0').
      13.   Reasonable irrigation system using nonculinary water, i.e. -
pressurized irrigation system.
   D.   Subdivision Procedure: The County's application and approval process
for the granting of subdivision approval shall apply. Nevertheless, to the
extent that the subdivision review process outlined in section
9-3-4 of this chapter differs from the County's application and approval
process, the procedures detailed in section
9-3-4 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2006-05, 8-11-2006)
9-3-4: SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Applications: Applications to locate a subdivision within the area of
City impact shall be made to the appropriate County agency pursuant to the
County's planning and zoning ordinance.
   B.   Application Fees: Fee requirements of the County shall apply to
applications to locate a subdivision within the area of City impact.
   C.   Referral Of Applications By County To City: The County shall forward a
copy of the proposed subdivision to the City within ten (10) days of receiving
a completed application.
   D.   Review Of Application By City: The City shall review the application
and forward comments and recommendations to the County Planning Office within
thirty (30) days of the City's receipt of the application. The County Planning
and Zoning Administrator, or his designee, may be invited to attend the City's
review meeting.
   E.   County Review: Upon receiving comments and recommendations from the
City, the County shall review the application pursuant to the procedures
outlined in the County's planning and zoning ordinance, as amended.
   F.   Public Hearings: The County shall give written notice to the City of
all public hearings held with respect to the application. The City may attend
any public hearings as an interested party.
   G.   Final Approval By County: The County Planning and Zoning Commission and
the Board of County Commissioners, in considering a proposed application,
preliminary plat and final plat, shall give due regard to the comments and
recommendations of the City.
   H.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of Law: All findings of fact and
conclusions of law made by the County with respect to any application shall be
in writing and forwarded to the City. (Ord. 2006-05, 8-11-2006)
9-3-5: AMENDMENTS:
In the event that the County or City wish to amend, repeal, or add provisions
to any portion of this agreement, notice shall be given to the other party at
least thirty (30) days prior to negotiation. The City or County shall take into
consideration the recommendations and comments of the other with respect to any
proposed changes to their Comprehensive Plans and/or ordinances. If the City or
the County cannot agree on the requested changes, then the procedures set forth
in Idaho Code section 67-6526 shall be implemented to resolve the dispute.
(Ord. 2006-05, 8-11-2006)
9-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The County shall enforce the applicable planning and zoning ordinances in the
area of City impact. In doing so, the County shall give due regard and
consideration to the wishes of the City with respect to such enforcement. (Ord.
2006-05, 8-11-2006)
CHAPTER 4
BASALT AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Area Of City Impact Described
9-4-2: Applicability Of Chapter
9-4-3: Subdivision Review Process
9-4-4: Public Utilities
9-4-5: Commercial Development
9-4-6: Amendments
9-4-7: Enforcement
9-4-1: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIBED:
The Bingham County Comprehensive Plan text and the general Bingham County
zoning ordinance are hereby amended to include the following described premises
as the City impact area for the City of Basalt:
Part of sections 19, 20, 29, and 30, Township 1 South, Range 37 East of the
Boise Meridian, Bingham County, Idaho, described as follows:
Beginning at the NW Corner of Section 20, T.1 S., R. 37 E.B.M. and running
thence East 2094.49 feet more or less to the West line of the Snake River
Valley Canal, thence following said West line of the Snake River Valley Canal
the following fourteen (14) courses more or less: (1) South 229.66 feet, (2)
S41°45'37" W 344.82 feet; (3) thence S20°59'06" W 718.24 feet; (4) S2°51'45" E
183.98 feet; (5) S22°37'12" E 358.27 feet; (6) S3°21'59" W for 156.44 feet; (7)
S31°25'46" W 581.36 feet; (8) S3°17'21" W 800.53 feet; (9) S27°45'31" W 197.24
feet; (10) S15°12'38" W 2065.80 feet; (11) S33°41'24" E 132.49 feet; (12)
S5°11'40" W 202.93 feet; (13) S29°50'45" W 646.06 feet (14) S12°15'53" W 432.44
feet to a point on the centerline of 750 North extended; thence West 3959.31
feet along said centerline to a point on the East line of the Reservation
Canal; thence following said Reservation Canal the following three (3) courses
more or less: (1) N21°13'25" W 1015.04 feet; (2) N60°23'44" E 464.89 feet; (3)
N40°14'11" E 156.44 feet thence West 918.63 feet more or less to the East
right-of-way line of Highway 91; thence along said right-of-way line N29°22'02"
E 6071.56 feet more or less to a point on the South line of section 18; thence
East 1358.41 feet more or less along said East line to the Point of Beginning,
containing 647 acres more or less.
(Ord. 2009-06, 5-18-2009)
9-4-2: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Bingham County Zoning Ordinance: The zoning ordinances of the County,
as amended from time to time, shall apply in the impact area.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan: The Comprehensive Plan of the County, as amended
from time to time, shall apply in the impact area.
   C.   Subdivision Ordinance: The substantive portions of the subdivision
ordinances of the County, as amended from time to time, shall apply in the
impact area with City review and comment prior to County approval.
   D.   Subdivision Procedure: The County's application and approval process
for the granting of subdivision approval shall apply. Nevertheless, to the
extent that the subdivision review process outlined in section
9-4-3 of this chapter differs from the County's application and approval
process, the procedures detailed in section
9-4-3 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2009-06, 5-18-2009)
9-4-3: SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Applications: Potential subdividers shall make application to the
appropriate County agency pursuant to the County's ordinance and shall include
the City as a reviewing agency for response.
   B.   Application Fees: Fee requirements of the County shall apply.
   C.   Review Of Applications By City: The City's Public Works Department
shall review the application and forward comments and recommendations to the
County Planning Office within thirty (30) days of receipt of application. The
County Planning and Zoning Director shall be invited to attend such review
meeting.
   D.   County Review: Upon receiving comments and recommendations from the
City, the County shall review the application pursuant to the procedures
outlined in the County's subdivision ordinance.
   E.   Public Hearings: The County shall give written notice to the City of
all public hearings held with respect to the application. The City may attend
any public hearings as an interested party.
   F.   Review By City Of Preliminary Plats: Prior to approval by the County of
preliminary plats, the City's Public Works Department shall hold a review
meeting and make formal written comments and recommendations to the County. The
County Planning and Zoning Director shall be invited to attend such review
meeting.
   G.   Final Approval By County: The County Planning and Zoning Commission and
the Board of County Commissioners shall give due regard to the comments and
recommendations of the City to the proposed application and preliminary plats.
   H.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of Law: All findings of fact and
conclusions of law made by the County with respect to any application shall be
in writing and forwarded to the City.
   I.   Appeals: Appeals of the decisions of the County shall be handled
pursuant to the County's applicable ordinances. The City, as an interested
party in the development of the City impact area, shall have standing to appeal
such decisions. (Ord. 2009-06, 5-18-2009)
9-4-4: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
All subdivisions approved in the impact area shall be required to connect to
City sewer and water services if such are within three hundred feet (300') of
existing facilities. The City's fees, rules, ordinances, and regulations
pertaining to such services shall apply. (Ord. 2009-06, 5-18-2009)
9-4-5: COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
Commercial development and industrial use developments in the impact area shall
be implemented under applicable County ordinances with comment and
recommendations from the City. All commercial and industrial development shall
be required to connect to City sewer and water services if such services are
within three hundred feet (300'). The City's fees, rules, ordinance, and
regulations pertaining to such services shall apply. (Ord. 2009-06, 5-18-2009)
9-4-6: AMENDMENTS:
The County and City shall provide thirty (30) days' notice to each Governing
Board prior to amending, repealing, or adding provisions to any ordinance that
applies in the impact area. Each Governing Board shall take into consideration
the recommendations and comments of the other Governing Board with respect to
such changes to the ordinance. (Ord. 2009-06, 5-18-2009)
9-4-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The County shall enforce the applicable ordinances in the impact area and shall
give due regard and consideration to the wishes of the City with respect to
such enforcement. (Ord. 2009-06, 5-18-2009)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Applicability
10-1-5: Separability
10-1-6: Pending Applications
10-1-7: Previous Violations
10-1-8: Fees
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the BINGHAM COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE and is
hereafter referred to as "this title". (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by article XII, section 2,
Idaho Constitution; and title 67, chapter 65; title 50, chapter 13; and title
31, chapter 8 of the Idaho Code, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord.
2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote development of the County in an orderly
manner in accordance with the Bingham County Comprehensive Plan, referred to
hereafter as the "plan", to protect property rights and the use of property,
and to provide standards for orderly development in conformance with Idaho Code
section 67-6511 et seq., as amended. It is not the intent of this title to
endorse or promote any politically motivated agenda or group except as required
by specific State or Federal laws. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
This title applies to the development and use of all lands within the
unincorporated area of Bingham County, Idaho, except those portions of tribal
land within the exterior boundaries of the Fort Hall Indian Reservation which
Bingham County does not have jurisdiction to regulate due to Federal law. All
persons, entities and government units, including their political subdivision,
shall comply with this title unless specifically exempted by State or Federal
law. In the interpretation and application of this title, the provisions
contained herein are declared to be minimum requirements. Nothing in this title
shall eliminate the need to conform to appropriate State or Federal regulations
or the need to obtain any other required permits. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
10-1-5: SEPARABILITY:
Should any chapter, section, or provision of this title be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decisions shall not affect the
validity of this title, as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so
declared unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-1-6: PENDING APPLICATIONS:
Applications pending as of the effective date hereof shall be processed
according to the regulations and requirements in effect as of the date the
complete application was submitted. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-1-7: PREVIOUS VIOLATIONS:
The prosecution of violations that occurred under previous land use regulations
and that remain a violation under this title shall continue until resolved.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-1-8: FEES:
By separate ordinance, the Board of County Commissioners (Board) may establish
fees to defray the costs of processing all applications, renewals and requests
for action filed pursuant to this title. All fees shall be established in
accordance with Idaho Code section 31-870(1) and Idaho Code section 63-1311A.
All such fees shall be payable at the time the application, renewal or request
is filed, and funds from the fees shall be deposited in the County's General
Fund. Notwithstanding any required fee, only the Board shall have the authority
to waive, in whole or in part, any fee established by the Board for an
application, renewal or request filed by any governmental agency or persons
upon showing just cause. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Purpose
10-2-2: Interpretation Of Terms
10-2-3: Definitions
10-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter identifies and provides the interpretation and meanings of terms
and words used in this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-2-2: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS:
   A.   Person includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company or corporation, as well as an individual.
   B.   Shall is mandatory, may is permissive, and should is preferred.
   C.   Used and occupied include the words intended, designed, or arranged to
be used or occupied.
   D.   Erected includes the words constructed, altered, moved or repaired.
   E.   Administrator is synonymous with the term Planning and Zoning
Administrator.
   F.   Commission is synonymous with the term Planning and Zoning Commission.
   G.   Board is synonymous with the term the Board of Bingham County
Commissioners.
   H.   The present tense includes the future tense; the plural number includes
the singular and the singular includes the plural unless the nature of the
construction of the sentence indicates otherwise.
   I.   Whenever a number of days is specified in this title, or in any permit,
condition of approval, or notice issued or given as provided in this title, the
number of days shall be construed as calendar days, except that such time
limits shall extend to the following working day when the last of the specified
number of days falls on a weekend or a Bingham County holiday.
   J.   Linear distance shall be measured in a horizontal line; it shall not be
measured along an inclined surface or line. For uses that have a separation
standard, the distance shall be measured from the nearest customer entrance of
the proposed use to the nearest property line of the specified use. The
measurement is to be conducted in a radial fashion by the specified number
(e.g., 300 feet, 1,000 feet).
   K.   Masculine terms include feminine, and vice versa. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED: To cease or discontinue use or activity for twelve (12) months.
ABUT OR ABUTTING: Having a contiguous border with the subject property.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A secondary building located on the same lot, the use of
which is incidental to the main building.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices of
zoning, who administers this title. The Bingham County Zoning Administrator.
ADVERSE IMPACT(S): Measurable increase in noise, light, odor, visual, or other
measurable impacts that are detrimental to public health, safety, and/or
welfare.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having an interest in real property that may be adversely
affected by the issuance or denial of a permit.
AGRICULTURE: A tract of land that shall be used primarily for farming,
pasturage, cultivation, animal or poultry husbandry, forestry, raising crops,
fisheries, horticulture, and truck gardening. The operation of any accessory
use shall be secondary and supportive to that of normal agricultural activity;
and any incidental retailing of goods and products raised on the premises shall
also be considered as being within the definition of agriculture.
AGRICULTURE BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, potatoes, poultry, livestock or other horticulture
products. This structure shall not be used as a place for human habitation, nor
a place of employment where agriculture products are processed or packaged or a
place used by the public. (Includes Ag-exempt structures.)
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water either public or private which is used, or
intended for use, by aircraft and including the necessary accessory structures
or facilities located thereon.
ALLOWED USE: Any use listed in chapter 5 of this title as a principal permitted
or accessory use.
AMUSEMENT FACILITY, INDOOR: An enclosed facility used for public entertainment
including, but not limited to, riding arena, bowling alleys, dance halls,
theaters and skating rinks.
AMUSEMENT FACILITY, OUTDOOR: A site, which may contain accessory buildings,
used for public entertainment including, but not limited to, golf courses,
drive-in theaters, raceways, riding arenas and marinas.
ANIMAL, DANGEROUS: Any animal or species of animal determined by the State of
Idaho to be a deleterious exotic animal as per Idaho Code section 25-3904, or
likely to cause injury to a person or another animal as determined by law. (See
also definition of zoo.)
ANIMAL UNIT: A measurement used to determine equivalent numbers of different
animal species.
ANIMAL WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: A structure or system that provides for the
collection, treatment or storage of animal excrement, feed wastes, process
water, or any other waste associated with the confinement of animals.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-unit dwelling which is
arranged, designed or used as a single independent unit with a private kitchen
and sanitary facility permanently installed.
APARTMENT HOUSE OR MULTIPLE-FAMILY USE: Any building or portion thereof which
is designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied or which is
occupied as a home or residence of three (3) or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking in said building. Flats
and apartments are included in this definition.
APPEAL: A request for review of a decision to a superior authority.
APPROACH: A connection between the outside edge of the shoulder or curb line
and the abutting property at the highway right-of-way line, intended to provide
access to and from said highway and the abutting property. An approach may
include a driveway, alley, street, road or highway.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: Those unincorporated areas surrounding incorporated cities
within Bingham County as identified on the Official Impact Area Map as per
Idaho Code section 67-6526.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR GARAGE: Building used primarily for the repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or parts thereof including body repair and
painting.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease,
batteries, tires and motor accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail
and where minor repairs or replacements may be made along with the sale of
beverages, packaged food, tobacco and similar convenience goods, as accessory
and incidental to principal operations. Uses permitted at a service station do
not include major mechanical and body work, painting, welding or vehicle
wrecking yard.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: See definition of vehicle wrecking yard.
AUTOMOBILES, BOATS, MANUFACTURED HOMES SALES LOT: Premises on which new and
used passenger automobiles, trailers, boats, manufactured homes, and passenger
cars, trucks and recreational vehicles in operating condition are displayed in
the open for sale or trade.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A dwelling providing overnight sleeping accommodations and
food service for compensation by patrons other than the owner or owner's
family.
BLOCK: A parcel of land or group of lots entirely surrounded by public streets,
streams, railroads, parks, a natural or artificial boundary line or combination
thereof.
BOARD: The elected Governing Board of Bingham County, Idaho.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a motel, hotel or restaurant where meals
and/or lodging are provided for compensation to three (3) or more unrelated
persons where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in individual rooms.
BONA FIDE: Legitimate, made in good faith without fraud or deceit. Not stated,
or used in order to circumvent provisions of this title.
BUFFER AREA: A portion of a development area in which walls or vegetation may
be placed or an area of undeveloped land may be used for the protection,
separation, or screening of the adjacent property from adverse effects of a
land use.
BUILDABLE RESIDENTIAL PARCEL: A parcel of land described by metes and bounds
meeting all requirements of this title as to division rights, size, frontage,
setback and health regulations as applicable. Located within a zone approved
for residences or as approved by the commission in conformance with this title.
BUILDING: Any structure with walls and roof affixed to the land and entirely
separated on all sides from any other structure.
BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL: A building other than an accessory building and
used as authorized by this title.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
enforcement of the adopted building and related codes for Bingham County.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official document or permit issued by the Building
Department authorizing the commencement of construction.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line established by law or agreement parallel to a
property line beyond which a building or structure may not extend.
BULK PLANT: Any premises or land where storage tank(s) with a greater than five
thousand (5,000) gallon capacity are used containing petroleum, chemical or dry
cement products, if said products are then dispensed at retail or wholesale.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the
handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for profit or
livelihood or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices,
recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance or use of offices for
professions and trades rendering services.
CANAL: A large water delivery system diverting water directly from a river or
other water source to lateral ditches used to irrigate land. They may be owned
individually or by shareholders.
CANNERY: A place where the business of preserving foodstuff such as meat,
fruit, and vegetables in sealed containers, is carried on for business, profit,
or as a community cooperative.
CARPORT: A stationary structure consisting of a roof with its supports and not
more than two (2) solid walls used for sheltering a motor vehicle.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial and/or perpetual care
of human or animal remains; and includes mausoleums, crematories, and
mortuaries, if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery.
CLINIC: A building other than a hospital or home occupation as herein defined,
used by licensed physicians for the purpose of receiving and treating patients.
Does not include veterinary clinic.
CLUB OR LODGE: A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by
an organization or by an organized association of persons for the exclusive use
of members and their guests where periodic meetings may be held to promote
common interests. This does not include any organization, group, or
association, whose principal activity is to render a service usually and
ordinarily carried on as a business.
COMMERCIAL: Any use involving the purchase, sale or other transaction involving
the handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for
livelihood or profit, or the ownership or management of office buildings,
offices, recreational or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of
offices by professions and trades rendering services.
COMMERCIAL MEAT PACKING FACILITY: Meat canning, curing, smoking, salting,
packaging and freezing or other similar establishments in which meat products
are so processed for sale to the retail trade, and where the inspection of
meat, meat byproducts and meat food products are maintained. Does not include a
slaughterhouse facility.
COMMERCIAL SLAUGHTERHOUSE: Slaughtering, meat canning, curing, smoking,
salting, packaging, rendering, freezing or other similar establishments in
which meat products are so processed for sale to the public and where
inspection of meat and meat byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
COMMISSION: The appointed Planning and Zoning Commission of Bingham County,
Idaho.
COMMUNITY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A system where more than two (2) homes are
connected to a common waste disposal system designed to accommodate connection
to a Municipal collection and treatment system when reasonably available.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A compilation of goals, policies, maps, and other data
guiding the physical, social, and economic development, both public and
private, of the County and its environs, as defined in the Idaho Local Land Use
Planning Act, as amended or subsequently codified. May also be referred to as
the "plan".
CONCESSION STANDS: A building, structure, vehicle or tent, having less than
three hundred (300) square feet of area, that is used for the sale of food,
beverages, fireworks, crafts and/or souvenirs on a temporary basis.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: An affirmative action by the Board indicating that
approval will be forthcoming upon satisfaction of certain specific
stipulations.
CONDITIONAL USE: Use of a structure or use of land permitted within a zone
other than a principally permitted use that requires a conditional use permit
and approval of the Board and may be subject to limitations and conditions
(same as a special use permit).
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: See definition of feedlot, stockyard,
livestock confinement operation, and section
10-7-10 of this title.
CONGREGATE RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof that contains facilities
for living, sleeping, and sanitation, as required by the adopted Building Code
and may include facilities for eating and cooking, for occupancy by other than
a family. A congregate residence may be a shelter, convent, monastery
dormitory, fraternity, or sorority house, but does not include jails,
hospitals, nursing homes, hotels, or lodging houses.
CONTRACTOR: A person or firm who agrees to furnish materials or perform a
service at a specific price. The term contractor shall include, but not be
limited to, electrical, plumbing, landscaping, building, hauling or any other
similar activities.
CONTRACTOR YARD: An area of land or premises surrounded by a sight obscuring
fence and outside of an enclosed building that may be used by a contractor for
storage of material or maintenance and incidental repair of machinery used for
the business.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A small retail establishment that carries a wide variety of
merchandise for the accommodation of those who live in the immediate vicinity.
COUNTY: Bingham County, Idaho, or its Governing Body.
COUNTY RECORDER: Clerk of Bingham County, Idaho.
COVENANT: A recorded document of written promise running with the ownership of
a lot in a recorded plat. It may have time limits. (See definition of
protective covenants.)
DAIRY: An operation whose principal function is production of milk including
the buildings or feeding area where dairy animals are kept.
DAYCARE: Care and supervision provided for compensation during part of a twenty
four (24) hour day, for a child or children not related by blood or marriage to
the person or persons providing the care, in a place other than the child or
children's own home. Types of daycare facilities are as follows:
Daycare Center: A place, home, building, or location providing care with
organized plan and instructions, for more than thirteen (13) children of
presecondary school age not residing on the same premises.
Family Daycare Center: A home, place, or facility providing daycare for six (6)
or fewer children.
Group Daycare Facility: A home, place, facility providing for seven (7) to
twelve (12) children.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes or by the
recording of a plat showing such dedication. Dedicated land becomes public land
upon the acceptance by the commission or other governmental unit.
DEVELOPER: The subdivider or authorized agent(s) of a subdivider.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A contract between a developer and the Board which
guarantees all development obligations relating to a subdivision and which is
secured by a performance/surety bond or a lien against the real property
therein.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan for the development of a large, unusual or complicated
land area, the platting of which is expected in progressive stages that may
include a planned unit development.
DISTRICT: An area or use designated on the Zoning Map in the nonincorporated
territory of Bingham County with certain uniform regulations and requirements.
(See chapter 4 of this title.)
DIVISION RIGHT: The ability to divide a parcel under the provisions of this
title.
DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK: The raising of fowl, cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep,
goats, and other grazing animals being a normal farm livestock operation where
the animals are pastured and fed grains. This includes, but is not limited to,
the processing or storage for market the products produced on the premises and
livestock that are not sufficient in number to qualify as a commercial
livestock confinement operation.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof containing three (3)
or more dwelling units including condominiums; also called a multi-family
dwelling.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building separated from other buildings by open
space and designated for use and occupancy by no more than one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupied exclusively by
two (2) families living independently of each other; also called a "duplex".
DWELLING UNIT: A building, or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling
units and which complies with the structural requirements of the adopted
Building Code. The term "dwelling" does not include any motel, hotel, or
boarding house as defined herein.
EASEMENT: Recorded authorization by a property owner for the use of any
designated part of their property by another for a specified purpose.
ENGINEER: Any person licensed by the State of Idaho to practice professional
engineering.
FEEDLOT, STOCKYARD, LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: Any parcel of land
containing twenty (20) acres or less having greater than five (5) animal units
per acre, or any parcel of land containing twenty (20) or more acres having a
minimum of one hundred (100) animal units in a corral for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days or more in any twelve (12) month period. All livestock shall
use section
10-7-15 of this title for determining the appropriate animal unit equivalents.
FERTILIZER STORAGE (COMMERCIAL): A structure used to store liquid or dry
fertilizer products for wholesale or retail; does not include farm storage for
use solely on a farm.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river, stream or other body of water which has been or may be covered by water
of a flood of 100-year frequency as shown on FIRM map panels for Bingham
County. The floodplain includes channel, floodway and floodway fringe
designations.
FOUNDRY: An establishment used for melting, molding, and casting of metals.
FOWL: Chickens, ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, guinea hens, turkeys,
peacocks, or other similar domesticated birds.
FRONTAGE: Property width abutting an approved road.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An attached or a detached building or a portion thereof in
which motor vehicles, used by the tenant of the main building on the premises,
are stored.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: An attached or detached building or structure or a portion
thereof for the use by the public where motor vehicles are stored or parked.
GEOTHERMAL: The use of energy derived from heat generated in the interior of
the earth.
GOVERNING AUTHORITY: The Board of County Commissioners, Bingham County, Idaho.
GRAIN MILL, COMMERCIAL: A building equipped with machinery for grinding grain
into flour and other products; may also include storage silos if accessory to
mill. This does not include farm, feedlot or dairy mills used exclusively for
on the farm use.
GRAVEL PIT: See definition of mining.
GREENHOUSE: A building, room, or area in which the temperature is maintained
within a desired range, used for cultivating tender plants or growing plants
out of season.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the rules and regulations of the District
Health Department of the State or the County.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Southeastern Idaho Health Department.
HIGH WATER MARK: The water level corresponding to the line which the water
impresses on the soil by covering it for periods of time.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful operation, profession, or craft conducted or
engaged in by an occupant of a dwelling, including, but not limited to,
teaching music, dance, or other instructional classes that are not in conflict
with the land use chart.
HOSPITAL: Any building used for inpatient accommodation and medical care of
sick, injured, or infirm persons and including sanitariums, but does not
include rest homes.
HOTEL: A commercial establishment offering lodging to travelers and sometimes
to permanent residents; and often having restaurants, meeting rooms, stores,
etc., that are available to the general public.
HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries, and similar pets; does not
include exotic animals that could be dangerous to the general public.
HUNTING PRESERVE: An area or facility used for hunting for which a fee may be
charged, including, but not limited to, shooting preserve as defined by Idaho
Code title 36, chapter 22, and cervidae ranches as defined by Idaho Code title
25, chapter 37 where the hunting of domestic cervidae is allowed.
IMPOUND YARD: Any lot or parcel of land, excluding a fully enclosed building,
that is used for the storage or holding of vehicles or personal property,
whether taken into custody of the law or other reasons.
INDUSTRIAL: The manufacture, processing, and testing of goods and materials,
including the production of power. It does not refer to the growing of
agriculture crops or the raising of livestock, or the extraction or severance
of raw materials from the land being classified, but it does include activities
incidental thereto.
INDUSTRY, HEAVY: Manufacturing and other industrial uses which are generally
major operations and extensive in character requiring large sites, open storage
and service areas, extensive services and facilities, and ready access to
transportation. It may generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration,
dust, or other commonly recognized offensive or hazardous conditions.
INDUSTRY, LIGHT: Manufacturing and other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations and which are relatively clean, quiet and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor and dust,
generally operating and storing within enclosed structures and generating
little industrial traffic.
IRRIGATION FACILITIES: Canals, laterals, ditches, conduits, gates, pumps and
allied equipment necessary for the supply, delivery and drainage of irrigation
water.
JUNK: Discarded, used or secondhand materials, including, but not limited to,
used machinery, scrap copper, brass, iron, steel or other ferrous or nonferrous
metals, tools, appliances, implements, vehicles, or parts thereof, furniture,
rags, glass, plastic, rubber, cordage, or building materials.
JUNKYARD: An establishment or parcel which is being maintained, operated, or
used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance or
operation of an automobile graveyard.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than four (4) dogs
more than six (6) months of age are maintained, possessed, boarded or bred.
LAGOON: Lined or unlined earthen structure designed to treat effluent through
biodegradation by bacteria.
LAND APPLICATION, COMMERCIAL: The spreading of wastewater, and/or liquid waste
into or onto the soil mantle; does not include animal waste application.
LARGE LIVESTOCK: Cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats, horses, mules,
llamas, emus, ostrich, or similar domesticated animals; does not include exotic
animals, such as lions, bears, zebras, or reptiles.
LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open off street area of land the principal use of
which is for standing, loading and unloading of motor vehicles and tractors and
trailers in order to avoid undue interference with public streets and alleys.
The off loading space shall be considered over and above the off street parking
space requirements.
LOT: A parcel of land described by metes and bounds or referenced to on a
recorded plat of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be construed to be that portion nearest
the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner and
through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to roads shall be considered frontage
and yards shall be defined herein.
LOT LINE: A line bounding the lot described in the deed or plat of the
property.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA: The area of a lot that is computed inclusive of any deeded
portion of the right-of-way of any public or private road. It is also inclusive
of easements.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot that is described by metes and bounds and which has been
recorded with the Office of the County Recorder prior to the adoption of this
title.
LOT TYPES: Terminology used in this title with reference to types of lots is as
follows:
Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more roads with an
external angle of not more than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
Interior Lot: A lot with only one frontage on a road.
Reversed Frontage Lot: A lot on which frontage is at right angles to the
general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot.
Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one road.
Through lots abutting two (2) roads may be referred to as double frontage lots.
MACHINE SHOP (COMMERCIAL): A building where precision metal parts are
manufactured or remanufactured; does not include a foundry.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, meeting the Housing and Urban Development and
Federal Housing Administration HUD/FHA Manufactured Home Standards (42 USC
5041), transportable in one or more sections built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation.
The structure does not have permanent attached wheels and axles and does not
include motor homes, recreational travel trailers or truck campers, or mobile
homes that do not meet HUD/FHA Standards.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A parcel of land developed with individual spaces for
siting more than two (2) manufactured homes to be leased or rented on a long
term occupancy; does not include manufactured home subdivisions where lots are
individually owned, dwellings for bona fide agricultural labor purposes or
temporary second dwellings.
MANUFACTURING: The making of a product, especially by machinery, including
assembling, fabricating, processing and refining (see definitions of industry,
heavy and industry, light).
MINERAL EXPLORATION: Exploration only does not include extraction.
MINING: The extraction of sand, gravel, rocks, soil, or other material from the
land and the removal thereof from the site. For the purposes of this title,
mining shall not include the removal of excess materials in accordance with
approved plats, utility and highway construction, normal farming practices, or
sod removal.
MOBILE HOME: A trailer or structure manufactured in such a manner that an
undercarriage is affixed to the structure for the purpose of enabling wheels
and axle or axles to be affixed thereto whether such wheels and axle or axles
are affixed or not, constructed prior to June 15, 1976 (pre-HUD).
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe or iron
or steel rods used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings on the same premises, whether detached,
semidetached or attached containing guest rooms for sleeping independently.
Also accessible with garage space or parking space located on the premises and
designed for or intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of
transient automobile travelers and which are rented by the day.
NATURAL RESOURCES: Land and/or water in a natural, unimproved state including
that which may be growing on it or found in it. Natural resources include, but
are not limited to, mineral deposits, timber, wind, geothermal, rangeland,
watersheds, recreation areas and wildlife habitat.
NONCONFORMING USE: A lawful use of land or of a building that does not conform
to the regulations of the zone, but existed prior to the enactment of this
title.
NURSING/CONVALESCENT HOME: A building or facility, operated for profit or
nonprofit, providing skilled nursing care and related medical services for two
(2) or more individuals on a twenty four (24) hour basis, who are mentally ill,
developmentally or physically disabled, or requiring care because of old age or
other illness.
OCCUPANCY: The character or use of a building or premises.
OCCUPANCY, CHANGE OF: Any change in the character or use of a building or
premises, not including change of tenants, proprietors, or occupants.
OFF STREET PARKING: The requirement of providing parking spaces for a use other
than on a street.
OFFICE/PROFESSIONAL BUILDING: Any building or portion thereof except a home
occupation designed or used for rendering the service(s) of a professional
nature by architects, engineers, surveyors, doctors, dentists, lawyers,
certified public accountants, consultants, and other similar practitioners.
OIL/GAS DEVELOPMENT: Exploration, extraction, processing or transportation of
natural oil or gas resources is regulated by Idaho Code section 47-317.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky that may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include natural features, tennis courts, water
areas, etc., or other areas that the commission deems permissive; does not
include streets, parking areas or structures.
ORIGINAL PARCEL: A parcel of land that was legally recorded in the County
Recorder's Office, excluding recorded subdivision plats, as of the effective
date of the Idaho State Local Planning Act 1 .
PARCEL: A legally created ownership of real property, as defined in a recorded
instrument, and is totally contained within any one section of land.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITY: Parking lots or structures located along public routes
designed to encourage transfer from private vehicles to mass transit or to
encourage carpooling for the purposes of commuting.
PARKING LOT, PRIVATE: An open, graded and surfaced area other than a street or
public way to be used for the parking of passenger vehicles for occupants of a
building or buildings for which the parking area is developed.
PARKING LOT, PUBLIC: An open graded and surfaced area other than a street or
public way not developed in conjunction with a particular business or use, to
be used by the public for the parking of vehicles.
PARKING SPACE: Usable space within a public or private parking area or building
for the storage of a single automobile or commercial vehicle.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public walk dedicated entirely through a block from street to
street.
PERFORMANCE/SURETY BOND: A financial guarantee by a subdivider or developer
with the County guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according
to plans and specifications, and/or the operation of said development according
to the provisions required by the County. May also be required to ensure the
reclamation of said development site as agreed to with the County. (See
definition of development agreement.)
PERSONAL SERVICES: Any enterprise conducted for gain that primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, barbershops, salons, and
similar activities.
PLAN: The Comprehensive Plan of Bingham County, Idaho.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land with a variety of residential,
commercial, industrial, or recreational uses developed under single ownership
or control in a preplanned environment with more flexible standards such as lot
size and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of Bingham
County. (See definition of commission.)
PLAT: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, Town site, cemetery or other
tract of land or a replatting of such, including certifications, descriptions,
dedications and approvals.
Final Plat: The final map, diagram, drawing or replat, containing all
descriptions, provisions, certifications, and approvals concerning a
subdivision in accordance with this title which has been accepted by the Board.
Predrawing: A drawing presented to the Board prior to the formal presentation
of a preliminary plat. This drawing will contain those requirements as set
forth in the subdivision requirements of chapter 14 of this title.
Preliminary Plat: The formal presentation by drawings, including descriptions,
requirements and all other elements as required by this title. Upon acceptance
by the commission and Board, a preliminary plat is the final document and is
used as a guide for the preparation of the final plat.
Recorded Plat: A final plat that has been accepted by the Bingham County
Recorder and filed for record.
PRIMARY DWELLING: The principal occupied dwelling on any lot that meets minimum
health and safety provisions of this title and the Building Code. On a
buildable residential lot, all other structures on the property shall be
accessory to the primary dwelling. This dwelling may be a mobile or
manufactured home but not an RV.
PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES: The use of offices and related spaces for professional
services by medical practitioners, lawyers, architects, engineers, and similar
professions.
PROPERTY LINE: An exterior line bounding all parcels described by deed(s) under
a single ownership to adjoining parcels or roads.
PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT: A realignment of a property line for the purpose of
adjusting a boundary between properties. This adjustment may not create
additional parcels nor reduce an existing parcel to less than the required size
per zone. It shall not move or affect the location of any platted lot line.
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: A recorded document of written promise running with the
ownership of a lot within a recorded plat, or a restriction listed on the deed
of a parcel outside of a recorded plat. This title does not regulate nor rely
on these covenants for the basis of a decision before the commission or Board.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: The erection, construction, alteration, operation or
maintenance of buildings, power plants, substations, transmission and
distribution, water treatment plants, pumping stations, sewage disposal,
emergency service buildings for ambulance, fire, police, rescue, telephone and
other government or nongovernment owned or operated facilities, except
landfills and mining activities.
QUASI-PUBLIC USES: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial or other schools,
colleges, hospitals, cultural buildings, and other facilities of an
educational, religious, charitable, philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
RACE TRACK: Structure or land or combination of land and structures used for
the racing of animals or vehicles and may include accessory uses normally
associated with this activity.
RECREATION, OUTDOOR: Activities related to the use of natural resources such
as, but not limited to, hiking, fishing, hunting and boating which require no
structures and create minimal disturbance to the land.
RECYCLING CENTER: A completely enclosed structure, not a junkyard or salvage
yard, in which recoverable resource materials such as paper, glassware and
metal cans are collected, sorted, crushed or bundled prior to shipment.
REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance. The word "repair" or "repairs" shall not apply
to any change in structure such as would be required by additions to, or
remodeling of, such structure.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property
that is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening. (See definition of right-of-way.)
RESIDENTIAL USE: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy including one, two and multi-family dwellings, but not
including hotels, motels, boarding houses, camp trailers, or motor homes,
except on a temporary basis.
RESTAURANT: Any building or part thereof, other than a boarding house or a bed
and breakfast establishment, where meals are provided for compensation
including, but not limited to, a cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunch room, tea
room, and dining room.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A roadway surface and its approved right-of-way open to the
public and subject to the jurisdiction of a public roadway agency.
ROADSIDE STAND: A structure having less than three hundred (300) square feet of
area designed or used for the display or sale of agricultural and related
products, the majority of which have been grown on adjacent land.
SALVAGE YARD: An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or salvage
materials are stored, handled, sold, baled, packed, disassembled, or exchanged,
including automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber and
places or yards for storage of salvaged building and structural steel materials
and equipment. Excluded are:
   A.   Places where such uses are conducted entirely within an enclosed
building;
   B.   Yards or establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars
or machinery in operable condition; or used furniture, household equipment; and
   C.   Those for the processing of used, discarded or salvaged material as
part of a permitted manufacturing operation on the same premises.
SANITARY RESTRICTIONS: The requirement that no building or shelter which will
require a water supply facility or a sewage disposal facility for people using
the premises where such building or shelter is located shall be erected until
written approval is first obtained from the Health Department.
SCHOOL: An institution conducting regular academic instruction or trade skills.
SCREEN PLANTING: Landscaping used to screen an area for privacy, to block an
objectionable view, or to serve as a natural boundary or border.
SETBACK AREA: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures by the front, side or rear yard requirements of this
title or by delineation on a recorded subdivision.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway that is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
SIGN: Any device, name, emblem, identification, trademark, illustration,
painted on or represented directly or indirectly, freestanding or attached,
designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not on the premises.
SITE PLAN: A scale drawing showing proposed uses and structure placement on a
parcel of land as required by the applicable regulations. It includes lot
lines, property lines, lot area, streets, parking spaces, all roadways,
walkways, topographic, open space, major landscape features and location of
proposed utility easements.
SPORT SHOOTING RANGE: An area or facility used for sport shooting for which a
fee may be charged; as defined by Idaho Code section 55-2604.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping of
animals owned by the occupant of the premises and not to be used for hire or
rental.
STABLE, RIDING: A detached accessory building or structure to be used for the
boarding or care of horses, other than those of the occupant of the premises,
for a fee and may include a riding arena.
STACKING LANE: An area of stacking spaces and driving lane provided for
vehicles waiting for drive-up service, which is physically separated from other
traffic and pedestrian circulation on the site.
STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE: A structure or group of structures with a
controlled access that contains individual, compartmentalized, or controlled
units that are leased or sold to store various items.
STREAM/WATERWAY SETBACK: The distance from the outer edge of a natural waterway
on which no structure may be placed.
STREET: A dedicated right-of-way that provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties and officially accepted by the Commissioners, including:
Alley: Provides secondary access at the back or side of a property otherwise
abutting a street.
Arterial: Provides traffic access from various traffic generators.
Collector: Carries traffic from local streets to other collectors and/or
arteries.
Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and provided
with a turnaround at its terminus.
Local: Provides access to abutting properties.
Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance that
provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Structures include, but are not limited to, buildings, manufactured homes,
broadcast towers, walls, fences over six feet (6') in height, and billboards.
Structures, for the purpose of this title, do not include road structures
including, but not limited to, bridges and overpasses.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for a subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
SUBDIVIDING: The act of dividing a lot, tract or parcel into two (2) or more
lots, parcels or tracts for the purpose of sale or building development,
whether immediate or future. A subdivision as defined by Idaho Code section 50-
1301(17) is regulated under chapter 14 of this title.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed by the State as a public land surveyor to
do professional surveying.
TANNERY/RENDERING PLANT: A place or building where skins and hides are tanned
or that renders and processes livestock carcasses into tallow, hides,
fertilizer, etc.
TAVERN/LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on
the premises, not including restaurants where the principal business is serving
food.
TRANSMISSION LINE (POWER): Those lines carrying more than one hundred fifteen
(115) kV of electricity from a power generation site to a substation or service
area, including towers or poles that are generally more than forty feet (40')
in height.
TRAVEL TRAILER/MOTOR HOME: A vehicle equipped with wheels for highway use that
is intended for temporary human occupancy and is used for vacation, travel or
recreational purposes not as a primary long term residence; may also be
referred to as a recreational vehicle or RV.
TRAVEL TRAILER/MOTOR HOME PARK: An area that accommodates the temporary parking
of two (2) or more travel trailers, campers and motorized coaches for short
term occupancy.
USE: The specific purpose for which land or a building is designated, arranged,
or intended.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater and similar facilities providing service to and use by
the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this title
as to size, coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks,
parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provision affecting the
size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon a parcel,
or the size thereof.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public street system, excepting travel trailers or
any device moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks as defined in Idaho Code section 49-123.
VEHICLE, INOPERABLE: A vehicle that cannot move under its own power or does not
meet the minimum legal requirements necessary for the motor vehicle to be
operated in a safe and lawful manner upon roadways and highways in the State of
Idaho as set forth in Idaho Code.
VEHICLE WRECKING YARD: Premises or land, excluding fully enclosed buildings, on
which five (5) or more inoperable or dismantled vehicles are within a sight
obscuring fence or where two (2) or more inoperable or dismantled motor
vehicles are standing without a sight obscuring fence for more than thirty (30)
days; or on which used motor vehicle parts are dismantled, stored or salvaged.
(See definition of salvage yard.)
VETERINARY CLINIC: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care and treatment of cats, dogs, sheep, cattle, horses, or any other animals
on which veterinary services are performed. This may include clipping, bathing,
boarding, and other services rendered to such animals and pets. Boarding for
the treatment, observation, recuperation, and/or for boarding that is
incidental to the primary activity.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing showing the location of a tract of land in relation to
a larger area.
WALKWAY: A public way, four feet (4') or more in width, limited to pedestrian
use whether or not along the side of a road.
WAREHOUSE: A building where wares or goods are stored before distribution or
are kept in reserve.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or manmade channel or conveyance system carrying water.
A watercourse does not include on site irrigation distribution system.
WETLANDS: Those areas inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a
frequency or duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands usually include swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas as identified by the Army Corps of Engineers or their
designated agent; does not include canals, ditches or ponds used for seasonal
irrigation purposes.
WILDLIFE PRESERVE: A parcel of land whose primary purpose is a habitat for wild
animals, indigenous to Idaho. Wildlife preserves are confined, private areas
and do not include State of Idaho wildlife management areas or unconfined lands
that are wildlife habitat.
WIND TURBINE: A mechanical device that converts wind energy into power. See
section
10-7-44 of this title.
YARD: A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by
any structure or portion of a structure from three feet (3') above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward. Accessories, ornaments and furniture may
be permitted in any yard, subject to height limitations and requirements
limiting obstruction of visibility.
ZONING MAP: The Official Bingham County Zoning Map as referred to in this title
and adopted by the County designating the various use zones.
ZONING PERMIT: A certification that the proposed construction, development or
use complies with applicable zoning established by the County.
ZOO: A site/structure where wild, dangerous, exotic and/or domestic animals are
kept for public showing. Zoos shall be regulated under Idaho Code title 25,
chapter 39. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6501 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION; HEARING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Purpose And General Organization
10-3-2: Zoning Administrator
10-3-3: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-3-4: Expenditures And Staff
10-3-5: Conflict Of Interest
10-3-6: Public Hearings
10-3-7: Appeal Of Commission Decision, Reconsideration Of A Board Decision,
Remand By Board To Commission And Judicial Review
10-3-8: Findings
10-3-9: Transcript Of Public Hearings
10-3-1: PURPOSE AND GENERAL ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter identifies the means and provisions for
administration of this title.
   B.   General Organization: For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this title, a Zoning Administrator and Planning and Zoning Commission are
hereby created. They shall be designated and duly appointed, respectively, by
the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-3-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The Board of County Commissioners may appoint an Administrator or designee to
administer the provisions of this title. The Administrator shall manage the
relevant staff of the Planning and Zoning Office and, for the purpose of this
title, shall have the following responsibilities:
   A.   Advise interested persons of the ordinance provisions.
   B.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest.
   C.   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
applications.
   D.   Make on site examination, or ensure that such examinations are made, of
all permit application locations.
   E.   Oversee the issuance of permits, notifications, publications, and
similar administrative duties.
   F.   Investigate all violations, or ensure that such investigation is made
of this and notify the person(s) responsible for such violation(s), ordering
the action necessary to correct the same.
   G.   Assist the Board and commission in carrying out the provisions of this
title.
   H.   In carrying out these duties, the Administrator, or designated
personnel, may call upon the services of appropriate County departments or
other governmental agencies for assistance in enforcing these provisions.
   I.   All administrative decisions made in writing shall contain language
informing the recipient or other affected persons of their right to an
administrative appeal under section
10-10-1 of this title, where appropriate. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-3-3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Membership:
      1.   The commission shall consist of nine (9) voting members, a minimum
of two (2) from each County Commissioner’s district with no more than four (4)
from any one district, all appointed by the Board Chairperson and confirmed by
majority vote of the Board in compliance with State law.
      2.   An appointed commission member must be a U.S. citizen and have
resided in the County for at least two (2) years prior to appointment; and must
remain a resident of the County while serving on the commission.
      3.   Not more than three (3) commission members may reside within an
incorporated City with a population of one thousand five hundred (1,500) or
more and at least one-half (1/2) of the commission members must reside outside
the boundaries of any city’s area of impact; provided however, if this
requirement cannot be met, then the procedures set forth in Idaho Code Section
67-6504 shall apply.
      4.   The term of office shall be three (3) years and a commission member
may serve no more than two (2) consecutive terms without specific concurrence
by two-thirds (2/3) of the Board as adopted by motion and recorded in the
Board’s minutes.
      5.   Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment.
      6.   Commission members shall be selected without respect to political
affiliation and may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the Board.
      7.   A majority of current commission members shall constitute a quorum.
      8.   At least one regular meeting shall be held each month for not less
than nine (9) months of the year and commission members will receive mileage
and a stipend to attend regular or special commission meetings as established
by the Board.
   B.   Organization: The commission shall elect a Chairperson and create other
offices that may be deemed necessary. The commission may also establish
subcommittees, advisory committees or neighborhood groups to advise or assist
in carrying out the commission’s responsibilities.
   C.   Rules, Records And Meetings: Written organization papers or bylaws
shall be adopted. Records of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies,
findings, permits, and actions taken by the commission shall be maintained and
open to the public.
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities: The commission shall have the following
powers and responsibilities:
      1.   Full authority of the Board as it applies to this title, excluding
the authority to adopt ordinances, zone changes, or final approval of platted
subdivisions.
      2.   Review and make recommendations to the Board on amendments to the
plan.
      3.   Periodically review and initiate proposed amendments to the zoning
ordinance, and make recommendations to the Board.
      4.   Review and hold public hearings for all planned unit development,
subdivision and zone change applications, and make recommendations to the
Board.
      5.   Review and hold public hearings for all conditional use and variance
applications and make appropriate decisions in accordance with this title.
      6.   Hear all appeals regarding decisions made by the Administrator.
      7.   Endeavor to promote understanding and public interest of commission
activities by holding citizen informational meetings, consulting with public
officials, public utilities, educational or other organizations and by holding
hearings, doing informational surveys or using other methods to obtain advice
on the planning process.
      8.   With the express consent of the owner, the commission or County
employees in the performance of their duties, may enter upon any land and make
examinations.
      9.   The commission shall have the right to seek judicial process as may
be necessary to enable it to fulfill applicable commission functions.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-3-4: EXPENDITURES AND STAFF:
With the approval of the Board, the commission and/or the Administrator, the
commission may receive and expend funds, goods and services in accordance with
State law. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-3-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   Conflicts of interest in the planning and zoning process shall be
governed by applicable provisions of the Idaho Code, including but not limited
to, Idaho Code section 67-6506; title 59, chapter 7; and title 18, chapter 13.
   B.   In the event that there has been a violation of laws regarding
conflicts of interest, any final recommendation or final decision involving the
person committing such violation may be vacated after due consideration by
disinterested members of the commission. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-3-6: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Procedures For Subdivision, Planned Unit Development, Ordinance Or Plan
Amendment And Rezone Public Hearings: Any person seeking an amendment of the
plan, ordinance or zoning map shall submit to the County Zoning Administrator a
written petition designating the change desired and the reasons therefor,
together with a fee as determined by the Board. Before recommending an
amendment to the zoning ordinance, evidence must be submitted to the commission
showing that such an amendment is reasonably necessary, is in the interest of
the public and is in harmony with the objectives and purposes of this title.
The following procedures shall apply:
      1.   The commission shall conduct at least one public hearing on each:
subdivision application; ordinance or plan text and/or map revision in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      2.   The hearing notice shall give the date, time and place of hearing,
the name of the applicant, name of the property owner if not the applicant,
identification of the property and such other facts as required by this title.
Identification of the property may include (a) the grid address of the location
or approximate location if an address has not been assigned; (b) the parcel
number and the Township, Range, and Section. If for any reason one of the
notification identifiers is inaccurate or contains a scrivener's error, but all
other identifiers are accurate, the notice will still be deemed valid and not
require a new publication.
      3.   At least twenty two (22) days prior to the hearing, notice of the
time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice shall
also be made available to other newspapers, radio and television stations
serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement.
      4.   A summary of the proposed action shall be sent to all political
subdivisions providing services within the planning jurisdiction, including
fire districts, school districts, utility companies, etc., by regular parcel
mail postmarked at least twenty two (22) days prior to the hearing.
      5.   Notice shall be provided by regular parcel mail postmarked at least
twenty two (22) days prior to the hearing to all property owners within three
hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered
for the proposed application. Comprehensive Plan changes and changes to this
title, which do not relate to a specified real property, do not require mailed
individual notices.
      6.   Notice shall be posted on the premises, not less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing. Should the property be inaccessible to the public,
notice shall be posted at the closest public access to the site.
      7.   When notice is required for two hundred (200) or more property
owners or purchasers of record, in lieu of mailing notification, the following
alternate form of notice may be followed: The notice shall be published three
(3) times in a newspaper of general circulation in the County, the last
publication of such notice shall be at least ten (10) days before the date set
for the public hearing.
      8.   No more than two (2) pages of written testimony will be accepted
less than eight (8) calendar days before a hearing.
      9.   Before recommending an amendment to the zoning ordinance, evidence
must be submitted to the commission showing that such an amendment is
reasonably necessary, is in the interest of the public and is in harmony with
the objectives and purposes of the zoning ordinance.
      10.   If after the public hearing, the commission makes a material change
to the advertised application, a second hearing shall be held before the
commission unless a hearing will be held before the Board.
      11.   The Board, prior to adopting, revising or denying a zone change
application as recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least one public
hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
      12.   If the Board makes a significant material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the Board adopts the amendment.
      13.   Amendments shall require a majority of the members of the Board
before an amendment can be effective.
      14.   No Comprehensive Plan (and/or map) amendments shall be effective
unless adopted by Resolution by definitive refence to the specific plan
document.
      15.   A record of the hearings, findings made, and action taken shall be
maintained.
   B.   Procedures For Conditional Use Permit And Variance Hearings:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct at least one public
hearing on each conditional use permit or variance application in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      2.   The hearing notice shall give the date, time and place of hearing,
the name of the applicant, name of the property owner if not the applicant,
identification of the property and such other facts as required by this title.
Identification of the property may include (a) the grid address of the location
or approximate location if an address has not been assigned; (b) the parcel
number and the Township, Range, and Section. If for any reason one of the
notification identifiers is inaccurate or contains a scrivener's error, but all
other identifiers are accurate, the notice will still be deemed valid and not
require a new publication.
      3.   At least twenty two (22) days prior to the conditional use hearing,
notice of the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published
in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction. Notice may also be made available to other newspapers, radio and
television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service
announcement.
      4.   A summary of the proposed action shall be sent to all political
subdivisions providing services within the planning jurisdiction, including
fire districts, school districts, utility companies, etc., by regular parcel
mail postmarked at least twenty two (22) days prior to the hearing.
      5.   Notice shall be provided by regular parcel mail postmarked at least
twenty two (22) days prior to the hearing to all property owners within three
hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered
for the proposed application.
      6.   Notice shall be posted on the premises, not less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the conditional use hearing. Should the property be inaccessible
to the public, notice shall be posted at the closest public access to the site.
      7.   Alternate notice; when notice is required for two hundred (200) or
more property owners or purchasers of record, in lieu of mailing notification,
the following alternate form of notice may be followed: The notice be published
three (3) times in a newspaper of general circulation in the County, the last
publication of such notice shall be at least ten (10) days before the date set
for the public hearing.
      8.   No more than two (2) pages of written testimony will be accepted
less than eight (8) calendar days before a hearing.
      9.   A record of the hearings, findings made, and action taken shall be
maintained. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-
18-2024; Ord 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-3-7: APPEAL OF A COMMISSION DECISION, RECONSIDERATION OF A BOARD DECISION,
REMAND BY BOARD TO COMMISSION AND JUDICIAL REVIEW:
The procedures for an appeal of a commission decision, reconsideration of a
Board decision, Remand by the Board to the commission and judicial review are
defined in this title, Chapter 10.
(Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-3-8: FINDINGS:
Whenever the Board or commission grant or deny an application, a written
decision in compliance with Idaho Code section 67-6535 or its successor shall
be approved. The date of the Board or commissions decision, once approved, is
the effective date of the decision.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-3-9: TRANSCRIPT OF PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Digital recordings of public hearings shall be made available to any person for
a fee as determined by the Board. Any person requesting a transcript of the
proceedings shall have the burden of all expenses for preparing said transcript
except as provided for by Idaho Code. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Intent; Zones Established
10-4-2: Purpose Of Zones
10-4-3: Official Zoning Map
10-4-4: Interpretation Of Zone Boundaries
10-4-1: INTENT; ZONES ESTABLISHED:
Use zones have been formulated to realize the general purposes as set forth in
this title and to conform to the stated goals and objectives of the plan. This
chapter includes specific definitions, purposes, and uses for each zone, as
they may vary from one zone to another. Use zones are:
A/NR Agriculture/Natural Resource
A    Agriculture
R/A  Residential/Agriculture
R    Residential
C1   Light Commercial
C2   Heavy Commercial
M1   Light Manufacturing
M2   Heavy Manufacturing
AP   Airport Overlay
NPO  Nitrate Priority Overlay
RM   Radioactive Material Overlay
 
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-4-2: PURPOSE OF ZONES:
   A.   Agricultural/Natural Resource (A/NR): The purpose of the A/NR Zone is
to provide for the protection and orderly development of the County's natural
resources which include, in addition to known and unknown mineral deposits,
timber, wind, agricultural lands, watershed, recreation, and scenic areas and
wildlife habitat that have:
      1.   Tracts or parcels adequate for immediate use and future growth.
      2.   Sufficient location away from urban areas to minimize effects on
neighboring uses.
      3.   Accessibility to adequate utilities.
      4.   Compatibility with adjacent uses.
      5.   Adequate service by roadways.
   B.   Agricultural (A): The purpose of the A Zone is to preserve and protect
the decreasing supply of agricultural land. This zone also is established to
control the infiltration of urban development into agricultural areas which
will adversely affect agricultural operations in order to:
      1.   Allow productive agricultural land areas to be protected.
      2.   Promote the public health, safety, and welfare by encouraging the
protection of viable farm land, in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan, to
encourage urban density development inside cities and in areas of City impact;
and to protect fish, wildlife, and recreation resources, consistent with the
purposes of the Local Land Use Planning Act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et
seq., as amended.
      3.   Protect agricultural and range land uses and wildlife management
areas from unreasonable adverse impacts from adjacent development.
   C.   Residential/Agricultural (R/A): The purpose of the R/A Zone is to
permit the establishment of low density single-family dwellings with lot sizes
sufficient for individual sewer and water facilities that have:
      1.   Suitability of parcel for agricultural purposes.
      2.   Proximity to existing areas of similar population density.
      3.   Lot size compatible with existing lot sizes in the immediate area.
      4.   Compatible with the existing uses in the immediate area.
      5.   Protection from incompatible uses.
      6.   Accessibility to adequate utilities.
      7.   Adequate service by roadways.
   D.   Residential (R): The purpose of the R Zone is to preserve desirable
residential neighborhood characteristics and to prevent overcrowding of the
land while encouraging the development of areas which are best suited for
residential purposes that have:
      1.   Close proximity to existing Town sites or which are contiguous to
another R or R/A Zone.
      2.   Lot size compatible with existing lot sizes in immediate vicinity.
      3.   Accessibility of Municipal services or the possibility of extension
of services in the foreseeable future.
      4.   Compatibility with existing uses in the immediate vicinity.
      5.   Protection from incompatible uses.
      6.   Adequate service by roadways.
   E.   Light Commercial (C1): The purpose of the C1 Zone is to permit the
location of businesses, offices and service establishments near or convenient
to residential areas to encourage community shopping of a primarily retail
nature with:
      1.   Accessibility to an area sufficiently populated to provide for
necessary purchasing power.
      2.   Adequate service by major roadways.
      3.   Locations which minimizes potential traffic problems.
      4.   Compatibility with existing uses.
   F.   Heavy Commercial (C2): The purpose of the C2 Zone is to provide for the
development of businesses and service establishments which are incompatible in
community shopping areas. This zone requires relatively large size lots and
easy highway access and should be removed from residential areas with:
      1.   Adequate service by major roadways.
      2.   Location that minimizes potential traffic problems.
      3.   Compatibility with existing uses.
      4.   Protection from encroachment of residential uses.
      5.   Accessibility to adequate utilities.
   G.   Light Manufacturing (M1): The purpose of the M1 Zone is to encourage
the development of manufacturing establishments which are relatively clean and
free of hazardous or objectionable elements and which are generally operated
within enclosed structures and generate little industrial traffic. This zone
would be kept substantially free from residential and retail commercial
activities that are:
      1.   Serviceable by major roadways.
      2.   Located to minimize potential traffic problems.
      3.   Compatible with existing uses.
      4.   Protected from residential uses.
      5.   Accessible to adequate utilities.
      6.   Accessible to rail or air transportation when necessary.
      7.   Protected from incompatible uses.
   H.   Heavy Manufacturing (M2): The purpose of the M2 Zone is to provide for
the development of heavy manufacturing. This zone should be located where it
will have minimum impact on surrounding land uses, be removed from the
residential zones and have ready access to adequate transportation arterials
and are:
      1.   Accessible to rail or air transportation when necessary.
      2.   Sufficiently located away from urban areas to minimize environmental
effects on neighboring uses.
      3.   Sufficiently located to minimize encroachment on residential or
commercial uses.
      4.   Adequately sized for immediate use and future growth.
      5.   Accessible to adequate utilities.
      6.   Location that minimizes potential traffic problems.
   I.   Airport Overlay Zone (AP) Or Airport Influence Area (AIA): The purpose
of the AP (Airport Overlay) Zone is to provide zoning protection to the present
and long term use of airports and airport facilities. Uses within the AP Zone
are generally associated with airport related activities, open space and
agricultural uses which are harmonious with the use of airports. The AP Zone is
superimposed over other zones with the following additional requirements:
      1.   The AP Overlay Zone is a rectangular area that limits the heights of
any structure around the airport extended from the primary surface at a ratio
of twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward extending to a horizontal
distance of two thousand feet (2,000') along the extended runway centerline.
This zone may be delineated on the Official Zoning Map.
      2.   All developments in the AP Zone shall meet the requirements of the
underlying zone in addition to Idaho Code title 21, chapter 5.
      3.   The object height limits and restrictions established by the Federal
Aviation Administration pursuant to title 14 CFR part 77 shall be imposed
relative to the existing primary surface, as well as any extended primary
surface shown on the Airport Master Plan. Height limitations shall be
calculated with the assistance of the currently adopted contour and elevation
map.
      4.   If any of the regulations specified in this section differ from
other regulations in this title, then the regulations of this section shall
govern.
      5.   The granting of a conditional use permit for a use in the AP Zone
shall not constitute a representation, guarantee, or warranty of any kind or
nature by commission or the Board or by any officer or employee thereof of the
practicality or safety of any structure or use proposed and shall create no
liability upon or cause action against such public body, officer or employee
for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
   J.   Nitrate Priority Overlay Zone (NPO): The purpose of the NPO Zone is to
reduce potential nitrate contamination into culinary wells within the area
defined by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality as a nitrate priority
area.
      1.   All developments in the NPO Zone shall meet the requirements of the
underlying zone.
      2.   All lots created after the implementation of this title of less than
five (5) acres shall, prior to issuing any residential building permit, require
a letter of notice signed by the property owner acknowledging the potential
nitrate hazards and possible mitigating steps that they could take to protect
their drinking water.
   K.   Radioactive Material Overlay Zone (RM):
      1.   The purpose of the Radioactive Material Overlay Zone (RM) is to
provide sighting areas in the appropriate remote locations where radioactive
materials may be stored, treated, transferred and disposed in a safe manner.
This overlay zone is designed to protect the environmental quality of the zone
and adjoining land. Facilities that are located within the RM Overlay Zone
shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with all County, State and
Federal regulations.
      2.   The RM Overlay Zone shall be located in areas furthest away from
population areas in the County. The RM Overlay Zone shall be identified on the
Official Zoning Map of Bingham County.
      3.   All activities relating to storage, treatment, transferring and
disposal of radioactive materials must be done only upon strict compliance in
accordance with all County, State and Federal regulations. Any storage,
treatment, transferring and disposal is prohibited except for: a) wastes
regulated by the Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) and the Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA); b) low level or
mixed wastes defined as such in 10 CFR 61.55 (Class A, B and C wastes).
      4.   If any of the regulations specified in this section differ from
regulations in this chapter, then the regulations of this section shall govern.
      5.   The Board of County Commissioners shall review all applications for
radioactive material facilities to assure that they are located within the
proper zones and are to be constructed in accordance with proper building
codes. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-4-3: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   The geospatial boundaries of zones shall be established and clearly
indicated upon the Official Zoning Map(s) adopted as part of this title.
   B.   All amendments of the Official Zoning Map(s) shall follow the
procedures set forth in chapter 15 of this title. All zone changes shall be
entered on the Official Zoning Map only after final Board approval.
   C.   Areas are to be classified according to the established zoning
requirements and such zoning shall give due consideration as to conformity with
the adopted Comprehensive Plan and its stated goals and objectives. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-4-4: INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the use zones are shown on the Official Bingham County Zoning
Map that is adopted as part of this title. Whenever possible, zone boundaries
are as depicted on the Official Zoning Map; however, where uncertainly exists,
the following shall apply:
   A.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, highway rights-of-way, streams, canals, or other bodies
of water, the centerline shall be construed to be such boundary.
   B.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines or land survey lines, such lot lines and land survey lines shall be
construed to be said boundaries.
   C.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately parallel to the
centerlines or street lines of streets or the centerlines or right-of-way lines
of highways, such boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and
at such distance therefrom as indicated on the Official Zoning Map. If no
distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by use of the scale
shown on the Official Zoning Map.
   D.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately the canal, natural
stream or watercourses, railroad lines, or other clearly defined natural
features, the centerline of said canal, stream, watercourse, main track of a
railroad line, or natural feature shall be construed to be said boundary. In
the absence of any street, survey line, canal, natural watercourse, railroad
line, natural feature, or measurement, as forming the boundaries of any zone,
the scale of measurement shown on the Official Zoning Map shall be used to
determine the boundary line.
   E.   Whenever a street is vacated, the land of the vacated street shall have
the same use classification as the land adjacent or abutting the land owned on
the same side of the centerline of the former street. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 5
USE ZONE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Compliance With Regulations
10-5-2: Official Schedule Of Zoning Regulations
10-5-3: Land Use Chart
10-5-4: Specific Requirements
10-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The regulations for each use zone set forth by this title shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class of use, kind of structure,
or land. Specifically, no building or other structure shall be erected or
altered:
   A.   To provide for greater height or bulk without proper permitting;
   B.   To accommodate or house a greater number of residential units, except
in conformity with all State and local regulations; and
   C.   No parcel existing on the effective date hereof shall be reduced in
dimensions or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-5-2: OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
Zoning regulations shall be as set forth in the official schedule of zoning
regulations (section
10-5-3 of this chapter) also referred to as "The Land Use Chart" and in the
performance standards.
   A.   Find the use on the left of the chart, then read across the chart until
an "A", "C", or "N/A" appears in one of the columns. And;
If "A" appears, the use is allowed, but may require a building or zoning
permit;
If "C" appears, use is allowed upon the issuance of conditional use permit; and
If "N/A" appears, the use is not allowed.
   B.   The Administrator shall interpret the appropriate impact for land uses
not specifically mentioned by determining the zoning in which similar uses are
permitted. When several combined land uses exist, or are proposed, the most
intensive land use shall be considered as the primary activity. Such
determinations may be appealed as per section
10-10-1 of this title. The commission may review and change the Administrator's
decision based on the preponderance of evidence standard as part of the hearing
process.
   C.   References on the land use chart do not eliminate compliance with
performance standards and all other provisions of this title.
   D.   Permits are not required for general nonstructural agricultural uses.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-5-3:LAND USE CHART:
Listed Use A/NR A R/A R C1 C2 M1 M2
Listed Use                                     A/NR A   R/A R   C1  C2  M1  M2
Accessory building                             A    A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Adult entertainment establishment              N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C   N/A
Agriculture and agriculturally-related
activities, roadside stands, sod, and U-pick   A    A   A   A   A   A   A   A
farms
Agriculture - commercial storage and grain     C    C   C   N/A C   A   A   A
elevator
Agriculture - grain elevator, bins and storage A    A   C   N/A A   A   A   A
buildings/cellars - (farmer/non-commercial)
Agriculture related processing or research     C    C   N/A N/A C   A   A   A
facility
Airport or airstrip - private or commercial    C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   C
Alcohol/ethanol fuel plant                     C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   A
Amusement facility, theme park, ballpark,      C    C   C   N/A C   C   C   N/A
concert/festival production
Aquaculture                                    C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Arena/Stable, indoor/outdoor - personal        A    A   A   N/A A   A   A   N/A
Arena/Stable, indoor/outdoor - public/         A    A   C   N/A C   A   A   C
commercial
Assisted care facility                         N/A  N/A A   A   A   A   A   N/A
Auction - auto                                 N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   C
Auction - livestock                            C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   A   C
Auction - nonlivestock                         N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   N/A
Bank/Financial Institution                     N/A  N/A C   C   A   A   C   N/A
Bar/lounge/nightclub                           N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   N/A
Batch Plant (asphalt/hot mix, concrete and/or  C    C   N/A N/A C   C   C   A
clay product manufacturing storage)
Bed and breakfast > 10 beds                    C    C   C   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Bed and breakfast < 10 beds                    A    A   A   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Boarding house                                 C    C   C   C   C   N/A N/A N/A
Bottling plant distribution center             N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   A
Bowling alley                                  N/A  N/A N/A N/A A   A   A   N/A
Brewery/Distillery/Winery                      C    C   C   N/A C   C   A   A
Building supply outlet                         N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   A
Bulk storage plant                             N/A  C   N/A N/A N/A A   A   A
Cabinet shop, commercial                       C    C   C   N/A C   A   A   A
Campground, commercial                         C    C   C   N/A C   C   N/A N/A
Cannery - community co-op                      C    N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Car wash, commercial                           N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   N/A
Cemetery                                       C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Chemical distribution center and storage       N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Church                                         A    A   A   A   A   A   A   N/A
Clinic/doctor office                           N/A  N/A C   C   A   A   A   N/A
Club/lodge                                     C    C   C   N/A A   A   A   N/A
Commercial meat packing/processing facility    C    C   N/A N/A C   C   A   A
Community center                               N/A  N/A N/A N/A A   A   C   N/A
Community sewage disposal plant                C    C   C   N/A C   C   C   C
Composting facility                            C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C
Concession stand                               A    A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Confined animal feeding operation CAFO         C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   N/A
Congregate residence                           C    C   C   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Contractors office/shop/yard                   C    C   C   N/A C   A   A   A
Convenience store, less than 10,000 aggregate  N/A  C   C   C   A   A   A   C
total square feet
Convenience store, more than 10,000 aggregate  N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   C   C   C
total square feet
Dangerous animals, raising not for public      C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
display
Daycare - center (with more than 13 clients)   N/A  C   C   C   A   A   C   C
Daycare - group daycare facilities (7 to 12    C    A   A   C   A   A   N/A N/A
clients)
Daycare - family (with 6 or less clients)      A    A   A   A   A   A   C   C
Dwelling - farm labor                          A    A   C   N/A C   C   C   C
Dwelling - multi-family                        N/A  C   C   A   C   C   N/A N/A
Dwelling - second temporary                    C    C   C   C   N/A N/A N/A N/A
Dwelling - single-family                       A    A   A   A   C   C   C   C
Dwelling - twin/duplex                         C    C   A   A   C   C   C   C
Emergency/urgent care center                   N/A  N/A C   C   A   A   A   A
Equipment sales/service/rental                 N/A  C   N/A N/A C   A   A   A
Factory outlet mall                            N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   C   N/A
Feed store                                     C    C   N/A N/A C   A   A   C
Feedlots                                       C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C
Fertilizer distribution center                 N/A  C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   A
Fertilizer processing (not compost related)    C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A
Fertilizer storage (commercial)                N/A  C   N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Fireworks sales and storage                    N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   C
Fish pond (private)                            A    A   A   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Fish pond/hatchery                             A    A   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Flea market                                    N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   N/A
Food processing facilities                     C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   A
Food sales cafe/lunch counter, drive-in,       N/A  N/A C   C   A   A   A   C
restaurant
Forest - off site storage and saw mill/planing C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A
mill
Forest - on site storage                       A    A   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A
Fossil fuel plant                              C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   C
Foundry (commercial)                           N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C   A
Garage - public                                N/A  N/A N/A N/A A   A   A   A
Geothermal, oil/gas development                A    A   N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A
Golf course - public                           C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Golf course - with residential subdivision     A    A   A   C   N/A N/A N/A N/A
Grain mill/flour mill, commercial              C    C   N/A N/A C   A   A   A
Gravel pit/mining - crushing/ excavation of    C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C
gravel, and associated batch plant
Greenbelt/walking paths                        A    A   A   A   A   A   C   C
Greenhouse, private                            A    A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Greenhouse, public                             C    C   C   N/A C   A   A   A
Group residence                                A    A   A   A   C   N/A N/A N/A
Gun range - indoor and outdoor                 C    C   C   N/A N/A A   A   A
Home occupation/business                       A    A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Hospital                                       N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   N/A
Hotel                                          N/A  N/A N/A N/A A   A   C   N/A
Hunting lodge                                  A    A   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Hunting preserve                               C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C
Impound yard                                   N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Industry, heavy                                N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A
Industry, light                                N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Junkyard/Salvage Yard/Parts resale             N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   C   C   C
Kennel                                         C    C   C   N/A C   C   C   C
Land application                               C    C   N/A N/A C   C   C   C
Landfill, sanitary - construction/demolition,  C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   C
Municipal and waste transfer
Landscaping business with indoor storage of    N/A  C   C   N/A A   A   A   A
equipment
Laundromat or dry cleaners/laundry or linen    N/A  N/A C   C   C   A   A   A
supply
Lumber yard                                    N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   A
Machine shop (commercial)                      N/A  C   N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Manufactured home/travel trailer park          N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C   C
Manufactured home/travel trailers sales/       N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C   C
service
Manufacturing, heavy                           N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A A
Manufacturing, light                           N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Mineral exploration                            A    A   N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A
Monument works                                 N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Mortuary, with or without crematory            N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   A
Motel                                          N/A  N/A N/A N/A A   A   C   N/A
Museum                                         C    C   C   C   A   A   N/A N/A
Nursing/convalescent home                      N/A  N/A C   C   A   A   N/A N/A
Office/professional buildings                  N/A  C   C   C   A   A   A   N/A
Painting - auto/equipment and signs            N/A  C   N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Park and ride facility                         C    C   C   C   A   A   A   A
Parking lot - public                           C    C   N/A N/A A   A   A   A
Planned unit development                       C    C   C   C   C   C   N/A N/A
Public and quasi-public uses                   N/A  C   N/A N/A C   C   C   C
Public service facility/yard                   C    C   C   C   C   A   A   A
Race track/motorcross                          C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   A
Radio, television and broadcasting station     N/A  N/A N/A N/A C   A   A   A
Radioactive material                           C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A C
Reception center, wedding/event                C    C   C   N/A A   A   C   N/A
Recreation - outdoor (public/commercial)       A    A   C   C   A   A   A   N/A
Recreational vehicle (RV) park                 N/A  N/A C   C   C   C   C   N/A
Recycling                                      C    C   N/A N/A N/A C   C   C
Retail store less than 10,000 aggregate total  N/A  N/A N/A N/A A   A   A   N/A
square feet
Retail store more than 10,000 aggregate total  N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   N/A
square feet
Roadside stand                                 A    A   A   C   A   A   C   C
Salvage/parts resale                           N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C   A
Sawmill/planing mill                           C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A
Schools/facilities - arts, dancing, dramatics,
athletics, indoor recreation, music, business, C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C
secretarial work, training /trade, etc.
(public/commercial)
Schools - public school districts, charter,    C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C
private, college/university
Seasonal activities, (commercial): corn mazes,
live Christmas nativities, haunted houses,
holiday celebrations, or revivals (see         A    A   A   N/A A   A   A   C
subsection
10-7-7I of this title)
Slaughterhouse                                 N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A
Sport shooting range                           C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C
Storage facility - self-service or RV storage  N/A  C   N/A N/A C   A   A   A
facility
Swimming pool, public                          C    C   C   C   C   C   C   N/A
Tannery/rendering plant                        N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A C
Terminal, freight                              N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Theater, indoor (commercial)                   N/A  N/A N/A N/A A   A   A   N/A
Theater, outdoor (commercial)                  N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   N/A
Tower - antenna, broadcast, cell,
telecommunication, internet, fiber, or other   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C
wireless/tower structure
Transmission lines (power)                     C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Truck sales/service/repair                     N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   A
Truck stop                                     N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   A
Truck wash (commercial)                        N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   A
Vehicle repair shop - limited outside storage  N/A  C   C   N/A C   A   A   C
Vehicle sales                                  N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A A   A   N/A
Vehicle - service/gas station                  N/A  N/A C   N/A C   A   A   C
Vehicle wrecking yard                          N/A  N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C   A
Veterinary clinic                              N/A  C   N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Warehousing/distribution center                N/A  C   N/A N/A N/A C   A   A
Wildlife preserve                              C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Wind turbine, hobbyist                         A    A   C   C   N/A N/A N/A N/A
Wind turbine, personal                         A    A   C   C   A   A   A   A
Wind turbines/MET towers, commercial           C    C   N/A N/A N/A N/A C   C
Zoo                                            C    C   N/A N/A C   C   N/A N/A
 
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 4-16-2024)
10-5-4: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
See chapter 7 of this title for specific requirements on listed uses in section
10-5-3 of this chapter, if applicable. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
CHAPTER 6
HEIGHT, SETBACK, FRONTAGE AND AREA REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Height Regulations
10-6-2: Visibility Regulations
10-6-3: Setback From Road Right-Of-Way Or Front Property Line
10-6-4: Setback From Side And Rear Property Lines
10-6-5: Setback From Waterways
10-6-6: Area Regulations
10-6-7: Frontage Regulations
10-6-8: Easement Regulations
10-6-9: Property Line Adjustment
10-6-10: Parking And Loading Regulations
10-6-1: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Building and structure heights shall be in accordance with the Building Code as
adopted by County ordinance. Height limitations do not apply to structures not
intended for human habitation (i.e., spires, cupolas, antennas, water tanks,
chimneys or other equipment placed above the roof level or bridges) except when
the placement of such a structure would create a hazard to the safe landing and
takeoff of aircraft at an established airport or otherwise specified in this
title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-2: VISIBILITY REGULATIONS:
On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of three feet
(3') and ten feet (10') above the centerline grades of the intersection roads
in the area bounded by the right-of-way. Visibility will not be impeded at any
intersection. Distances for visibility will be governed by Idaho Code section
49-221 or the Bingham County Public Works Department Street Standards
respectively. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-3: SETBACK FROM ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY OR FRONT PROPERTY LINE:
The following setback distances shall apply to all permitted uses:
 
                               From ROW ROW Minimum Width
I-15 (Federal)                 50 feet  Varies
State highway (arterial)       50 feet  100 feet
Major collector (> 1,000 vpd1) 30 feet  70 feet
Collector (< 1,000 vpd1)       30 feet  60 feet
Local                          30 feet  50 feet
Private road/easement          20 feet  50 feet2
 
Notes:
   1.    Vehicles per day.
   2.    See subsection 10-6-8D of this chapter for exception to 50 feet.
   A.   Potato storage buildings with a loading and unloading entrance facing
onto a road right-of-way shall maintain a one hundred fifty foot (150')
setback.
   B.   Temporary roadside stands shall be located at least ten feet (10') from
the right-of-way or easement and shall not create a traffic hazard.
   C.   Road designation classifications and minimum road rights- of-way are
subject to change and shall be set by the Bingham County Public Works
Department as approved by the Board and delineated in the Official Functional
Classification Map.
   D.   Power transmission lines shall meet setback distances from State or
County rights-of-way as determined by the appropriate transportation authority.
This approval must be submitted with the conditional use permit application.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-4: SETBACK FROM SIDE AND REAR PROPERTY LINES:
The following setback distances shall apply; additional setback areas may be
required by chapter 7 of this title based on specific use requirements:
Type Of Structure Distance From Side Lot Distance From Rear Lot Line Exceptions
                  Line
Type Of Structure  Distance From Side Distance From Rear Exceptions
                   Lot Line           Lot Line
                                                         20 feet to existing
Accessory          5 feet             5 feet             residence on adjacent
                                                         lot
Agriculture or     5 feet             5 feet             50 feet to existing
potato storage1    20 feet            20 feet            residence on adjacent
                                                         lot
                                                         20 feet when adjacent
Commercial/        5 feet             5 feet             to R or R/A or as
industrial                                               listed in the
                                                         performance standards
Confined feeding   Refer to section
operation          10-8-6 of this title
                                                         50 feet to existing
Corrals            0 feet             0 feet             residence on adjacent
                                                         lot
High voltage                                             50 feet to existing
transmission line  0 feet             0 feet             residence
( 115 kV)
Residence          5 feet             20 feet             
Roadside stand     5 feet             5 feet              
Wells              5 feet             5 feet              
 
Note:
   1.    See subsection 10-6-3A of this chapter for additional setbacks.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-5: SETBACK FROM WATERWAYS:
Structures, other than canal structures, shall not encroach on any water right-
of-way. The required setback from property lines may be included in the
following requirements:
 
Type Of Waterway               Distance From High Water Mark
American Falls Reservoir       300 feet
Canals                         50 feet1
Rivers, lakes, flowing streams 100 feet
 
Note:
   1.   Unless approved in writing by the Canal Board for less setback.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-6: AREA REGULATIONS:
Area requirements vary between zones, and the following minimum size
requirements shall apply:
   A.   In all zones outside a platted subdivision, any approved residential
parcel shall be a minimum of one acre using division rights. A minimum of 5.01
acres is required for a nonresidential agricultural exemption parcel.
   B.   Platted subdivisions shall require the following minimum lot sizes:
      1.   R and R/A Zone: One acre minimum with individual well and septic.
      2.   R Zone: One-half (1/2) acre with well or septic coupled with an
appropriate shared community water or septic system.
      3.   R Zone: One-fourth (1/4) acre with both community well and community
septic system.
      4.   A and A/NR Zone: Five (5) acre minimum.
      5.   C and M Zone: One acre minimum unless otherwise approved by the
Board. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-7: FRONTAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   All new lots, tracts, or parcels of land created after the effective
date hereof shall have frontage that abuts an approved County or State roadway
or private easement for a depth of twenty feet (20') from said roadway and have
a minimum frontage of one hundred five feet (105') on said roadway or easement.
Lots with legal frontage under previous ordinances or meeting the above
requirements shall be considered conforming lots.
   B.   All new lots, tracts, or parcels of land created after the effective
date hereof within subdivisions with lots of less than one acre or the platted
Town sites of Goshen, Groveland, Moreland, Pingree, Riverside, Rockford,
Springfield, Sterling, Thomas, Wapello, and Woodville shall have frontage that
abuts an approved County or State roadway or private easement for a depth of
twenty feet (20') from said roadway and have a minimum frontage of seventy five
feet (75') on said roadway or easement.
   C.   New lots on a cul-de-sac radius or other dead end roads shall have
frontage that abuts an approved County or State roadway or private easement and
have a minimum frontage of fifty feet (50') with a minimum depth of twenty feet
(20'). (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-8: EASEMENT REGULATIONS:
It is the intent of this title to provide for orderly development that ensures
the public has adequate access for emergency equipment and other public
services. Therefore, residential or commercial buildings erected or moved onto
any lot, tract, or parcel of land in any zone that does not abut a maintained
road that is accepted by Bingham County or the State of Idaho must have access
to a private road or easement and the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Outside of a platted subdivision, or within a platted subdivision with
four (4) or less buildable lots, the use of a private road or recorded easement
for access to a residential or commercial building may be allowed. For
residential purposes, use is limited to four (4) single-family dwellings.
   B.   The construction used for private roads and easements for residential
or commercial access shall be adequate for safety vehicles as per the Fire
Code.
   C.   The easement or private road shall have a minimum right-of- way width
of fifty feet (50') and shall be recorded on the property deed and shall be
located on property meeting the requirements of section
10-6-7 of this chapter. If the easement or private road serves only two (2)
dwellings or less, the width may be reduced to twenty feet (20') with written
approval of all landowners served or crossed and the appropriate fire district.
   D.   Property owners using said easement or private road for access to their
property shall acknowledge that County road maintenance or services are not
provided and that the County shall not be held liable for any reason concerning
said easement or private road. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-6-9: PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT:
Outside of a platted subdivision, a parcel's boundary may be adjusted between
two (2) or more parcels with the following regulations:
   A.   This adjustment may not create additional buildable residential
parcels.
   B.   This adjustment may not reduce an existing lot or parcel to less than
the minimum dimensional standards for the applicable zone.
   C.   This adjustment may not affect any required setbacks from easements,
public streets, private roads or publicly dedicated areas.
   D.   This adjustment cannot be used for transferring division rights from
one original parcel adjacent to another original parcel unless approved by a
conditional use as per chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff.
10-26-2012)
10-6-10: PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
The following parking and loading criteria are intended to minimize street
congestion and traffic hazards, to provide safe, convenient access to business,
public services and places of public assembly, and to visually improve parking
area appearances:
   A.   Off Street Parking Required; Ingress And Egress: At the time of
construction of any structure, or at the time any such structure or use of land
is enlarged or increased in capacity, there shall be provided off street
parking, including adequate provisions for safe ingress and egress.
   B.   Existing Use Changed To New Use: Whenever the existing use of a
building or structure shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or
loading facilities shall be provided as required for such new use.
   C.   Existing Buildings Not Deemed Nonconforming Due To Off Street Parking:
No lawfully existing building shall be deemed nonconforming solely due to the
lack of required parking or loading facilities; provided, that space being used
for off street parking or loading on the effective date hereof is not further
reduced in area of capacity.
   D.   Fractional Number For Calculated Number Of Spaces: When the calculation
of the required number of spaces called for herein results in a fractional
number, fractions equal to or greater than one-half (1/2) shall be adjusted to
the next highest whole number of spaces.
   E.   Uses Not Listed In Chapter: Parking space requirements for a specific
use not listed in this chapter shall be based on a use with similar traffic
generating characteristics.
   F.   Minimum Width And Length: All off street parking areas shall have a
minimum width of ten feet (10') and a minimum length of twenty feet (20') per
space.
   G.   Wheel Restraints: All off street parking areas shall be provided with a
substantial wheel restraint to prevent cars from encroaching upon abutting
private and public property.
   H.   Symbols And Signs: Parking spaces, access lanes, and handicapped areas
should be marked with symbols and signs that comply with the Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices.
   I.   All Weather Surface: Every open off street parking area having more
than four (4) required parking spaces shall be all weather surfaced, including
access driveways.
   J.   Parking Facilities For Several Buildings: Off street parking facilities
for several buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided
collectively if the total number of spaces so located together shall not be
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each of the buildings or
uses.
   K.   Illumination Of Parking Areas: Lights to illuminate off street parking
areas shall be shielded and directed away from residential properties and
highways, and such parking areas shall be effectively screened from any
adjoining side property in a residential zone by a wall, solid fence, or hedge
of a minimum height of six feet (6') or with an approved buffer area.
   L.   Parking Spaces Upon Same Premises As Dwellings: Required parking spaces
for dwellings shall be upon the same premises as the dwelling, and no parking
space shall be located in any public right-of-way.
   M.   Handicap Accessible Parking: In addition to required parking as defined
in this section, hard surface handicapped parking spaces shall be provided in
all parking lots in a ratio as determined by chapter 1106 of the International
Building Code (IBC), as amended, and shall be one and one-half (11/2) times as
wide as a regular parking area.
   N.   Stormwater: All parking lot facilities shall be designed and
constructed to ensure that all surface waters will drain into an approved
stormwater retention or removal system and shall minimize the discharge of any
pollutants into surface water drainage by including oil, grease, or silt traps.
   O.   Commercial And Industrial Development: Commercial and industrial
development shall meet the following:
      1.   Access roads to parking spaces for commercial and manufacturing uses
shall not be less than twelve feet (12') wide if the traffic pattern is one-way
and twenty four feet (24') wide if the traffic pattern is two-way.
      2.   Maneuvering space shall be adequate for entry and exit from parking
spaces within the parking lot and not within the public right-of-way.
      3.   Retail and service uses that conduct business while customers remain
in their vehicles shall provide a circulation pattern that separates drive-
through traffic from stopover customers. Separation may be paint striped lanes
or any other approved type of separation barrier from the point of access to
the stacking area. Separation lanes shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
width.
      4.   Stacking area shall accommodate a minimum of four (4) cars per drive
through window. A separation shall be provided between cars waiting and other
on site traffic.
   P.   Loading: Any structure for a commercial or industrial use having a
gross floor area of five thousand (5,000) or greater square feet shall be
required to provide and maintain at least one off street loading space. One
additional off street loading space shall be required for every subsequent
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross floor space. Each loading space
shall be not less than fourteen feet (14') in width and forty feet (40') in
length and shall have a minimum of fourteen feet (14') of vertical clearance.
   Q.   Spaces For Maximum Number Of Vehicles Anticipated: Parking spaces shall
be provided for the maximum number of vehicles anticipated for all applicable
types of uses or occupancies on the property at any one time. (Ord. 2012-08,
10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIFIC USE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Accessory Structure With Living Space And Caretaker's Residence
10-7-3: Additional Dwelling Unit, Farm Help Residence
10-7-4: Additional Dwelling Unit, Temporary
10-7-5: Adult Entertainment Establishment
10-7-6: Alcohol Serving Establishment
10-7-7: Amusement Facility, Indoors And Outdoors
10-7-8: Bulk Storage Of Hazardous Or Flammable Liquids And Gases
10-7-9: Care Facility Regulations
10-7-10: Confined Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO)
10-7-11: Cemetery
10-7-12: Chemical, Pesticides, Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing
10-7-13: Contractor's Yard
10-7-14: Equipment Rental, Sales And Service
10-7-15: Farm Animals
10-7-16: Feedlots
10-7-17: Food Products Processing
10-7-18: Fuel Sales Facility And Truck Stop
10-7-19: Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits
10-7-20: Home Occupation
10-7-21: Hotel Or Motel
10-7-22: Livestock Auction Yards, Meat Packing And Slaughter Facilities
10-7-23: Multi-Family Development
10-7-24: Plant Nursery, Wholesale Or Retail
10-7-25: Public Utility, Major; And Public Infrastructure
10-7-26: Roadside Stand, Agriculture
10-7-27: Reception Center, Wedding (Outside Commercial Zone)
10-7-28: Recycling Center And Solid Waste Transfer Station
10-7-29: Salvage Yard
10-7-30: School
10-7-31: Signs
10-7-32: Storage Facility, Outside
10-7-33: Storage Facility, Self-Service
10-7-34: Terminal, Freight Or Truck
10-7-35: Tower; Broadcast, Cell, Telecommunication
10-7-36: Transmission Line (Power)
10-7-37: Vehicle Impound Yard
10-7-38: Vehicle Repair, Major And Minor
10-7-39: Vehicle Sales Or Rental
10-7-40: Vehicle Washing Facility
10-7-41: Vehicle Wrecking Yard Or Junkyard
10-7-42: Veterinary Clinic
10-7-43: Warehouse
10-7-44: Wind Turbines
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
Certain land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental influences on
surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for such unique land
uses as provided for in this chapter shall be adhered to in additions to all
other provisions of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-2: ACCESSORY STRUCTURE WITH LIVING SPACE AND CARETAKER'S RESIDENCE:
   A.   Each lot, tract, or parcel of property, considered a buildable
residential parcel by this title, shall be allowed one accessory dwelling unit,
once they receive an approved building permit. The following provisions shall
apply:
      1.   The owner of the real property shall be the applicant.
      2.   The proposed location shall consist of a parcel with a minimum of
two (2) acres unless otherwise approved by a conditional use permit.
      3.   The accessory use must meet setback requirements and all other
provisions of this title.
      4.   The applicant must obtain approval for water and sanitary facilities
from the health authority.
      5.   The residential portion must meet all the requirements of this title
and the Building Code as per residential uses.
   B.   The accessory use structure may not be sold as a separate parcel.
   C.   The residential portion of the accessory use structure may not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the gross floor area unless otherwise approved by a
conditional use permit.
   D.   In commercial or manufacturing zones, a caretaker's residence shall be
allowed with the same provisions as above, excluding subsection C of this
section; provided:
      1.   The employee housing or mobile home space where housing could be
connected to services may not be used as a rental unit for a nonemployee
caretaker.
      2.   The applicant shall provide employee verification for the occupant
and a signed statement that the residence shall be removed when it is no longer
utilized as employee housing.
   E.   Temporary construction housing may be permitted for remote commercial
or industrial projects using the same provisions as subsection D of this
section, but are limited to the duration of the project and use of RV or
bunkhouse modular housing. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-3: ADDITIONAL DWELLING UNIT, FARM HELP RESIDENCE:
   A.   All bona fide farm, ranch, or dairy operations may have up to two (2)
additional permitted dwellings on one parcel with a minimum of a five (5) acre
parcel for full time employees. The following provisions shall apply:
      1.   The owner of the real property shall be the applicant.
      2.   The residential location shall be on an operating farm, ranch or
dairy.
      3.   The residence must meet setback requirements and all other
provisions of this title.
      4.   The applicant must obtain approval for water and sanitary facilities
from the health authority.
      5.   The residence must meet all the requirements of this title
pertaining to residential uses.
   B.   The farm dwelling may not be sold as a separate parcel.
   C.   The employee housing or mobile home space where housing could be
connected to services may not be used as a rental unit for nonfarm labor. (Ord.
2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-4: ADDITIONAL DWELLING UNIT, TEMPORARY:
   A.   A temporary dwelling to reside in during the construction or renovation
of an existing or newly permitted primary dwelling is allowed, with an approved
building permit, on any buildable residential lot, but must be removed within
thirty (30) days of occupancy of the primary dwelling.
   B.   Each lot, tract, or parcel of property, considered a buildable parcel,
shall be allowed one additional temporary dwelling for a medical hardship; a
conditional use permit shall be required. The conditional use permit shall be
based on the following provisions:
      1.   The owner of the real property shall be the applicant.
      2.   The proposed location shall consist of a parcel with a minimum of
two (2) acres unless otherwise approved by the conditional use permit.
      3.   The temporary residence must meet setback requirements and all other
provisions of this title.
   C.   Detached temporary dwelling units shall be located to the side or rear
of a primary dwelling. No portion of the temporary dwelling unit shall be
located in front of the primary dwelling unit.
   D.   At least one parking space shall be provided on site for the temporary
dwelling unit in addition to the required parking for the existing residential
unit.
   E.   The temporary residence must obtain approval for water and sanitary
facilities from the health authority.
   F.   The application must include a current statement by a licensed
physician attesting to the existing medical condition and need for assistance
thereof.
   G.   The applicant must provide a statement that the temporary second
dwelling will be removed upon termination of occupancy by either the dependent
or care provider or is not in compliance with conditional use permit
conditions.
   H.   In the event the property is sold or leased, the conditional use permit
is not transferable to the new owner(s) of the property. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-5: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   A conditional use permit shall be required for all adult entertainment
facilities demonstrating compliance with the setback provisions of Idaho Code
section 67-6533. The selling of sexually explicit material or obscene conduct
is regulated by Idaho Code title 18, chapter 41.
   B.   The applicant shall provide evidence certified by a professional land
surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho that the proposed adult entertainment
establishment conforms to the separation requirements of this subsection.
   C.   All adult entertainment establishments shall comply with the sign
regulations of section
10-7-31 of this chapter. Further, signs for adult entertainment establishments
shall not contain any emphasis, either by movement, picture, or otherwise, on
matter relating to adult entertainment as herein defined.
   D.   Any business providing adult entertainment or adult material shall have
in place at each entrance to such business a legible door "sign" (as defined
herein) stating: "Persons under 18 years of age not permitted". The sign shall
be no less than 0.5 square feet in area. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-7-6: ALCOHOL SERVING ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   The drinking establishment shall not be located within three hundred
feet (300') of a property used for a church or education service. Nor shall the
drinking establishment be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of an adult
entertainment establishment.
   B.   For properties within one thousand feet (1,000') of a residential zone,
no outside activity or event shall be allowed on the site. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-7: AMUSEMENT FACILITY, INDOORS AND OUTDOORS:
   A.   All structures or outdoor recreation areas shall maintain a minimum
setback of one hundred feet (100') from any abutting residential zones. The
playing areas of golf courses, including golf tees, fairways and greens are an
exception to this standard.
   B.   Any outdoor event or activity center located adjacent to a residential
zone shall be limited to outside use only between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   C.   Accessory uses include, but are not limited to: retail, equipment
rental; restaurant and drinking establishments may be allowed if designed to
serve patrons of the use only.
   D.   All outdoor public address systems shall be located a minimum five
hundred feet (500') from any residential or residential/agriculture zone.
   E.   Additional standards for swimming pool: Any outdoor swimming pool shall
be completely enclosed within a six foot (6') nonscalable fence that meets the
requirements of the Building Code.
   F.   Additional standards for outdoor stage or musical venue: Any use with a
capacity of one hundred (100) seats or more and within one thousand feet
(1,000') of a residential zone shall be subject to approval of a conditional
use permit. This applies to one time and seasonal events also.
   G.   Amusement facilities shall have adequate parking as per chapter 6 of
this title.
   H.   Amusement facilities shall have Health Department approval for sanitary
and washing provisions to meet all the needs of anticipated attendees.
   I.   Seasonal or one time events or concession stands not exceeding ten (10)
calendar days per event, or forty five (45) calendar days (within 1 year) of
intermittent use do not require a conditional use permit when they comply with
all above requirements. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-8: BULK STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES:
Facilities for storage of hazardous or flammable substances for resale shall be
erected subject to the following:
   A.   The facility for aboveground tanks shall be enclosed by an eight foot
(8') high security fence or wall with the entrance and exit through a gate that
shall be locked during nonbusiness hours.
   B.   When adjacent to a residential zone, all structures or outdoor activity
areas shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from any property
line and all tanks shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000')
from a property line adjacent to a residential zone.
   C.   The applicant must furnish written documentation showing a review from
the appropriate fire district and/or DEQ; listing any conditions placed upon
the use and how they will comply with those conditions.
   D.   Approved loading and unloading spaces and off street parking facilities
will be required as listed in this title.
   E.   Construction will meet the criteria of the current Building Code as
adopted by Bingham County.
   F.   This section does not apply to retail service stations or convenience
stores that also dispense propane unless they are in a residential zone. (Ord.
2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-9: CARE FACILITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Standards: Idaho Code sections 39-1109 and 39-1110 and IDAPA
will be used to determine the type of care facility.
      1.   In determining the type of daycare facility, the total number of
clients cared for during a twenty four (24) hour period at the facility shall
be used.
      2.   On site vehicle pick up, parking and/or turnaround areas shall be
provided to ensure safe discharge and pick up of clients.
      3.   The applicant or owner shall secure and maintain a basic daycare
license from the State of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, Family, and
Children's Services Division and all required license(s) from the local, State,
and/or Federal agencies.
      4.   The applicant shall not exceed the maximum number of clients as
stated in the approved permit or as stated in this title, whichever is more
restrictive.
      5.   In residential zones, no structural alterations to a residential
building are allowed which result in changing the exterior residential
character of the building.
   B.   Babysitting: The occasional care of a neighbor, relative or a friend's
child or children by a person as defined by Idaho Code section 39-1103(1).
Babysitting does not need licensing in Bingham County and is not regulated by
this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
   C.   Child Daycare Facility: The care, control, supervision or maintenance
of children for twenty four (24) hours a day which is provided as an
alternative to parental care (IDAPA 16.06.02.010).
      1.   Family Home Care: A home or place providing care for one to three
(3) children. No licensing necessary and is not regulated by this title.
      2.   Family Daycare Center 1 : A home, place, or facility providing
daycare for four (4) to six (6) children during part of a twenty four (24) hour
day (IDAPA 16.06.02.010).
      3.   Group Daycare Home: A home, place, facility providing daycare for
seven (7) to twelve (12) children (IDAPA 16.06.02.010).
      4.   Daycare Center: A place or facility providing daycare for
compensation for thirteen (13) or more children (IDAPA 16.06.02.17).
   D.   Adult Daycare: Adult daycare is a supervised, structured day program,
outside the home of the participant that may offer one or more of a variety of
social, recreational, health activities, supervision for safety, and assistance
with activities of daily living (IDAPA 16.05.06).
      1.   Certified Family Home 2 : A family styled living environment in
which two (2) or fewer adults live who are not able to reside in their own home
and who require care, help in daily living, protection and security,
supervision, personal assistance and encouragement toward independence.
      2.   Assisted Living Care Facility/Residential Care: A facility or
residence, however named, operated on either a profit or nonprofit basis for
the purpose of providing necessary supervision, personal assistance, meals, and
lodging to three (3) or more adults not related to the owner (IDAPA 16.03.22).
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   Group Residence:
      1.   A place or facility that provides care and supervision for
compensation for eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically
handicapped or elderly persons that reside and who are supervised at the group
residence in connection with their handicap or age related infirmity as per
Idaho Code section 67-6531.
      2.   Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or to
any of the mentally and/or physically handicapped or elderly persons residing
in the group residence as per Idaho Code section 67-6531.
      3.   The Department of Health and Welfare may require group residences,
as defined in Idaho Code section 67-6531, to be licensed and set minimum
standards for providing services or operation. Such licensure may be under the
residential or assisted living facility rules specifically written by the State
for such group residences. No conditional use permit shall be required unless
it is also required for single-family dwellings as per Idaho Code section 67-
6532.
   F.   Hospital: A medical institution licensed by the State that is devoted
to the maintenance and operation of facilities for the medical or surgical care
of patients twenty four (24) hours a day, including air transport facilities.
The term hospital does not include health care and social services, nursing and
residential care facility, or establishments that forcibly confine patients.
      1.   No hospital shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the following uses: explosive manufacturing or storage; adult entertainment
establishments; flammable substance storage; foundry; freight and truck
terminal; manufacture or processing of hazardous chemicals; power plant; food
product storage or processing plant.
      2.   If the hospital provides emergency care, the location shall have
direct access on an arterial street.
      3.   Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops,
food or beverage service, and personal service shops, may be allowed if
designed to serve patrons of the hospital and their visitors only. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
   G.   Nursing/Convalescent Home:
      1.   A facility designed to provide area, space, and equipment to meet
the health needs of two (2) or more individuals who, at a minimum, require
inpatient care and services for twenty four (24) or more consecutive hours for
unstable chronic health problems requiring daily professional nursing
supervision and licensed nursing care on a twenty four (24) hour basis,
restorative rehabilitative care and assistance in meeting daily living needs.
Medical supervision is necessary on a regular, but not daily, basis as per
Idaho Code title 54, chapter 16 (IDAPA 16.03.02.002). (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Additional standards for uses providing care to patients who suffer
from Alzheimer's disease, dementia or other similar disability that may cause
disorientation: A barrier with a minimum height of six feet (6'), along the
perimeter of any portion of the site that is accessible to these patients shall
be provided. The fencing material shall meet the swimming pool fence
requirements of the Building Code. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 39-1102.
2 2. IC 39-3502(8).
10-7-10: CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO):
   A.   Establishment: To establish an orderly procedure to regulate the
placement, construction or expansion of a confined animal feeding operation
(CAFO) within Bingham County. Bingham County does not have the resources or
authority to enforce State or Federal environmental laws. However, it is the
intent of the Board to require all CAFOs operating in Bingham County to obtain
and be in compliance with all applicable Federal and State Environmental
Standards, to be sited within approved zones, and to meet certain development
standards. The Board also feels that it is appropriate to take advantage of all
resources and assistance available from other government agencies in making
CAFO permit decisions.
   B.   Compliance The specific provisions of this section control when other
portions of this title are inconsistent with provisions of this section. Any
action taken by Bingham County pursuant to this section does not ensure that
the applicant is in compliance with any other provisions of applicable State,
Federal or local laws, rules, and/or regulations.
   C.   General Requirements: CAFOs are subject to the following requirements:
      1.   A conditional use permit is required for all new CAFOs or the
expansion of an existing CAFO that constitutes a significant change.
      2.   Zones allowing CAFOs are listed on the land use chart in this title.
      3.   A CAFO shall comply with and not be in violation of any Federal,
State or other local laws, regulations, or guidelines.
      4.   Odor management and pest control shall meet and utilize the most
current Idaho Department of Agriculture Best Management Practices.
      5.   Other applicable DEQ or EPA regulations.
   D.   Required Setbacks For New CAFO Or Expansion Of Existing CAFO:
Specific Location Distance From
Specific Location                Distance   From
                                 300 feet   County road right-of-way
                                 300 feet   State road right-of-way
                                 1,000 feet A residence not associated with the
                                            CAFO1
Existing CAFO facility expansion 50 feet    Water's edge of any canal, lateral,
                                            or ditch
                                 100 feet   Live water (lakes, rivers, and/or
                                            streams)
                                 300 feet   Well for potable water not
                                            associated with the CAFO
                                 300 feet   State road right-of-way
                                 1,000 feet A residence not associated with the
                                            CAFO1
Liquid waste separator, holding  50 feet    Water's edge of any canal, lateral,
pond, treatment lagoon, storage             or ditch
facilities                       100 feet   Live water (lakes, rivers, and/or
                                            streams)
                                 300 feet   Well for potable water not
                                            associated with the CAFO
                                 300 feet   County road right-of-way
                                 300 feet   State road right-of-way
                                 1,000 feet A residence not associated with the
                                            CAFO1
Composting                       50 feet    Water's edge of any canal, lateral,
                                            or ditch
                                 100 feet   Live water (lakes, rivers, and/or
                                            streams)
                                 300 feet   Well for potable water not
                                            associated with the CAFO
                                 1,000 feet Residential/Agriculture Zone
                                            boundary
New CAFO facility                1,000 feet Residential Zone boundary
                                 1,000 feet Commercial Zone boundary
                                 2 miles    All incorporated cities
 
   Note:
      1.   New residences not associated with the CAFO shall meet the 1,000
foot setback or provide a recorded acknowledgement of potential CAFO nuisance
conflicts.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-11: CEMETERY:
Graves and monuments shall not be located within fifteen feet (15') of any
external property line. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-12: CHEMICAL, PESTICIDES, FERTILIZER STORAGE AND MANUFACTURING:
Storage of chemicals, pesticides and fertilizers for wholesale, resale or as
part of a manufacturing facility shall be subject to the following:
   A.   The applicant must furnish evidence that the facility will comply with
DEQ or other regulatory agencies.
   B.   A buffer may be required within the required setback from property
line.
   C.   Approved loading and unloading spaces and off street parking facilities
will be required.
   D.   A secondary retaining area will be required. The secondary retaining
area shall be large enough to hold up to the amount of the largest tank located
in the retaining area.
   E.   Setbacks for structures are to be from the secondary containment area.
   F.   There shall be no uncontained outdoor storage of chemicals and/or
fertilizers.
   G.   Construction of all facilities shall meet the criteria listed in the
approved County Building Code. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-13: CONTRACTOR'S YARD:
   A.   All structures or outdoor storage areas shall be located a minimum of
one hundred feet (100') from any residential zone.
   B.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   All outdoor storage of material or equipment shall be maintained in
an orderly manner screened by a view obscuring fence. Stored items shall not
block sidewalks or parking areas and may not impede vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      2.   Outdoor storage shall be incorporated into the overall design of
buildings and landscaping so that the visual and acoustic impacts of these
functions are fully contained and out of view from adjacent properties and
public streets.
   C.   The site shall not be used as a junkyard, vehicle wrecking yard,
storage of junk, wrecked cars or parts, or used for salvaged material as herein
defined.
   D.   All material stored within the yard must be pertinent to the type of
contracting business.
   E.   Any repair of equipment will be limited to that of the permitted use.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-14: EQUIPMENT RENTAL, SALES AND SERVICE:
All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and lifts)
shall occur within an enclosed structure. All sales and equipment storage areas
must be screened on all sides and back by a six foot (6') sight obscuring fence
unless otherwise approved by a conditional use permit as per chapter 8 of this
title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-15: FARM ANIMALS:
   A.   The following regulation shall apply in R and R/A Zones that allow
animals other than household pets:
      1.   Minimum lot size must be one acre to have animals other than
household pets. Area requirements specified are inclusive of land used for
other purposes such as dwellings, accessory buildings, gardens, driveways, etc.
      2.   An accumulative total of three (3) animal units are allowed per
acre.
      3.   Animals other than household pets are only allowed on residential
lots of less than one acre by approved conditional use permit.
   B.   A and A/NR Zones shall not be regulated in the number of animals per
acre unless a CAFO or feedlot is created.
   C.   C and M Zones, not in conjunction with a bona fide agriculture
operation shall be determined by conditional use permit as per chapter 8 of
this title.
   D.   For animals not listed, the Administrator shall determine the number of
animals allowed based on the area requirements of the closest related animal.
Such determinations may be appealed as per section
10-10-1 of this title. An approved conditional use permit may allow additional
animals.
   E.   All animal units (AU) shall be based on the following unit equivalents:
  AU Value Number Per Acre1
                                                     AU Value  Number Per Acre1
Beef/bison:                
                         1 bull (mature)            1.5 unit  2
                         1 slaughter/feeder cow     1.0 unit  3
                         1 dairy heifer             1.0 unit  3
                         1 beef cow/calf pair (up   1.2 unit  2
                          to 6 months)
                         1 dairy cow                1.5 unit  2
                         1 feeder calf (6 month - 1 0.5 unit  6
                          year)
                         1 calf (up to 6 months)    0.2 unit  15
Horses:                    
                         Over 1,000 lbs. or mare w/ 1.5 unit  2
                          foal
                         Over 500 lbs. and under    1.0 unit  3
                          1,000 lbs.
                         Under 500 lbs.             0.5 unit  6
Swine:                     
                         1 swine (over 55 lbs.)     0.4 unit  7
                         1 feeder pig (up to 55     0.2 unit  15
                          lbs.)
Sheep, lambs, goats:       
                         1 sheep or lamb            0.2 unit  15
                         1 goat                     0.2 unit  15
Chickens, turkeys, ducks,  
geese:
                         Chickens                   0.01 unit 300
                         Turkeys                    0.02 unit 150
                         Ducks                      0.01 unit 300
                         Geese                      0.02 unit 150
Penned rabbits:            
                         Rabbit                     0.01 unit 300
Fish or species not        
specifically identified:
                         500 lbs.                   1.0 unit  1,500 lbs.
 
   Note:
       1.   The number per acre column is only for convenience and does not
include the aggregate total of other animal groups on the same parcel.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-16: FEEDLOTS:
   A.   Corrals or holding area for the impoundment of livestock for market or
production not incident to farm or ranch livestock operation of CAFO.
   B.   Any parcel of land containing twenty (20) acres or less having greater
than five (5) animal units per acre, or any parcel of land containing twenty
(20) acres or more having a minimum of one hundred (100) animal units in a
corral for more than one hundred eighty (180) days or more in any twelve (12)
month period.
   C.   Must be located at least one-fourth (1/4) mile or greater distance from
any residential zone or incorporated city unless this distance is specifically
reduced as part of the conditional use permit. Excluding any feeding operation
controlled under Idaho Department of Agriculture. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-17: FOOD PRODUCTS PROCESSING:
   A.   All structures, loading areas, outdoor activity areas, exclusive of
parking shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from any
abutting residential zones.
   B.   Food processing shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet
(1,000') from any hospital.
   C.   The application materials shall include written documentation that the
proposed facility meets any applicable Federal, State, or local standards
regarding such use including, but not limited to, those of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), Idaho Department of Agriculture,
Idaho Department of Water Resources, and Central District Health Department, as
applicable. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-18: FUEL SALES FACILITY AND TRUCK STOP:
   A.   General standards:
      1.   When allowed as an accessory use, gasoline or diesel fuel sales
facilities shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the subject
property.
      2.   Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but
outside the fueling areas. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to
prevent obstruction of the public right-of-way by patrons. Such stacking lanes
shall be separate from areas required for access and parking.
   B.   Additional standards for fuel sales facility, truck stop:
      1.   The use shall be located on a State highway (arterial) or near an I-
15 interstate interchange.
      2.   The use shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from
any residential zone and a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any
hospital. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-19: GRAVEL PITS, ROCK QUARRIES, SAND AND CLAY PITS:
   A.   Pits and excavation shall be maintained, so that they are free from
debris and waste material and the bank shall have a slope of not more than
thirty five degrees (35°) except during active removal.
   B.   A buffer zone of not less than one hundred feet (100') shall be
maintained during the operation of the site. Trees and other types of noise and
dust reduction may be required to be placed in the buffer area if the site is
adjacent to a residential use, prior to obtaining any permit.
   C.   A reclamation plan, approved by the appropriate State agency, shall be
on file with the Planning and Zoning Department in advance of issuing a zoning
permit. Due consideration shall be given to what is suitable and compatible
with the surrounding area.
      1.   Result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible.
      2.   Restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4").
      3.   Revegetate/plant with native plants.
   D.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and structures,
except property line fences and structures for loading, measuring, or weighing
salable materials in storage, shall be entirely removed from the property.
   E.   Crushing of materials shall be conducted within the pit and shall be
subject to conditions placed on dust, noise, and hours of operation as
determined by the commission and/or any other State or Federal agency.
   F.   Development agreements, bonding, or other monetary measures may be
required to guarantee rehabilitation of the site.
   G.   Filling, grading, lagooning, dredging or other earth moving activities
shall:
      1.   Provide temporary groundcover such as mulch, except during active
removal.
      2.   Use diversions, silting, basins, terraces and other methods to trap
sediment.
      3.   Avoid creation of fish trap conditions.
      4.   Not restrict a floodway, channel or natural drainway.
      5.   Construct and stabilize sides and bottoms of cuts, fills, channels
and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure.
      6.   Not have below grade excavation except for drainageways within fifty
feet (50') of any external property line, canal or public right-of-way. (Ord.
2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-20: HOME OCCUPATION:
   A.   The provisions of this title specifically require commercial and
manufacturing businesses to be located in the appropriate zone. However, it is
not the intent of this title to prohibit Bingham County residents from
conducting a home business. Home occupation businesses are exempt from the
permitting process unless the business exceeds any of the following, in which
case a conditional use permit may be obtained as per chapter 8 of this title:
      1.   Not more than one additional full time employee shall be employed.
Family members and part time help are exempted.
      2.   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for residential purposes and does not change the character of the
dwelling or adversely affect any uses permitted in the zone where the home
occupation is located.
      3.   No external alterations or additions may be added to the dwelling
not customarily associated with a family residence, such as storefront
appearance or exterior lighting.
      4.   Does not create noise, vibration, fumes, or electrical interference
that is detectable off site.
      5.   The use conducted within the dwelling is not more than fifty percent
(50%) of the gross area of the home.
      6.   The home occupation or any storage of goods, materials, or products
connected with a home occupation shall be allowed in a detached accessory
structure of up to one thousand five hundred (1,500) square foot and up to two
(2) stories.
   B.   Off street parking shall be provided as set forth in chapter 6 of this
title in addition to the required off street parking for the dwelling and shall
not impede the traffic flow or off street parking of neighboring uses.
   C.   One unlighted sign not more than four (4) square feet in area is
permitted.
   D.   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained
that involves installation of a larger service other than what is normal for a
residential purpose.
   E.   A home occupation must be in full compliance with all health and safety
regulations.
   F.   A home occupation permit does not override or supersede any restrictive
covenants or deed restrictions that may pertain to the subject property.
   G.   A home occupation may not be used for an automobile, truck or engine
repair shop.
   H.   All home occupations must meet the Building Code occupancy separation
requirements, and all Health Department and relevant State regulations.
   I.   No equipment, vehicles or materials shall be placed or parked in a
manner as to create a hazard to any public roadway or neighboring driveways.
   J.   The home occupation shall not serve as a headquarters or main office
where multiple employees come to the site and are then dispatched to other
locations unless approved by a conditional use permit as per chapter 8 of this
title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-21: HOTEL OR MOTEL:
   A.   Accessory uses including, but not limited to, restaurants, retail,
drinking establishments, and personal services, may be allowed if such uses are
completely within the hotel or motel structure. A drinking establishment shall
require separate or concurrent approval subject to the regulations of section
10-7-6 of this chapter.
   B.   A conditional use permit shall be required for any hotel or motel use
that adjoins a residential zone or an existing residence. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-22: LIVESTOCK AUCTION YARDS, MEAT PACKING AND SLAUGHTER FACILITIES:
   A.   These facilities shall be designed and located with full consideration
of their proximity to adjacent uses, their effect on adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor and noise.
   B.   These facilities shall be adequately maintained with housekeeping
practices that prevent the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to
health authority and DEQ requirements regulating the elimination of waste
materials and maintaining water quality. All waste products must be contained
to eliminate odor. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-23: MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT:
Multi-family developments with multiple properties shall be considered as one
property for the purpose of implementing the standards set forth in this
section.
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   To create multi-family housing that is safe and convenient and that
enhances the quality of life of its residents.
      2.   To create quality buildings and designs for multi-family development
that enhance the visual character of the community.
      3.   To create building and site design in multi-family development that
is sensitive to and well integrated with the surrounding neighborhood.
   B.   Site Design:
      1.   Buildings shall provide a minimum setback of ten feet (10') unless a
greater setback is otherwise required by this title. Building setbacks shall
take into account windows, entrances, porches and patios, and how they impact
adjacent properties.
      2.   All on site service areas, outdoor storage areas, waste storage,
disposal facilities, and transformer and utility vaults shall be located in an
area not visible from a public street, or shall be fully screened from view
from a public street.
      3.   For the purposes of this section, vehicular circulation areas,
parking areas and private usable open space shall not be considered common open
space.
      4.   No recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, boats or other personal
recreation vehicles shall be stored on the site unless provided for in a
separate, designated and screened area.
      5.   The parking shall meet the requirements set forth in chapter 6 of
this title.
      6.   Developments with twenty (20) units or more shall provide the
following:
         a.   A property management office;
         b.   A maintenance storage area;
         c.   A central mailbox location, including provisions for parcel mail
that provides safe pedestrian and/or vehicular access;
         d.   A directory and map of the development at an entrance or
convenient location for those entering the development.
      7.   Common open space shall be not less than four hundred (400) square
feet in area per unit and shall have a minimum length or width dimension of
twenty feet (20').
      8.   In phased developments, common open space shall be provided in each
phase of the development consistent with the requirements for the size and
number of dwelling units.
      9.   Common open space areas shall not be adjacent to collector or
arterial streets unless separated from the street by a constructed barrier at
least four feet (4') in height.
      10.   Multi-family developments shall provide for quality of life, open
space and recreation amenities to meet the particular needs of the residents as
approved by the commission.
      11.   Multi-family developments shall provide a copy of the legally
binding documents that state the maintenance and ownership responsibilities,
for the management of the development, including, but not limited to,
structures, parking, common areas, and other development features. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-24: PLANT NURSERY, WHOLESALE OR RETAIL:
   A.   Outdoor mechanical equipment, including, but not limited to, heaters
and fans, shall not be located within five feet (5') of a property line. To
facilitate reduction of noise, permanently mounted mechanical equipment shall
be enclosed to the maximum extent possible.
   B.   Long term outdoor storage shall be screened from adjacent property and
shall not be located within the required setback, parking, loading or unloading
areas, and may not impede vehicle or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-25: PUBLIC UTILITY, MAJOR; AND PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE:
   A.   Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of
vehicles (including, but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps,
garages for minor repair) may be allowed.
   B.   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval
from the Idaho Division of Environmental Quality and the appropriate fire
authority.
   C.   No portion of the outside storage areas and/or outside activity areas
may be visible from any highway, interstate, gateway corridor, principal
arterial, or minor arterial as herein defined.
   D.   All driveways into and through the facility and any open area with a
driving surface shall be surfaced with a dustless material including, but not
limited to, asphalt, concrete, pavers or bricks.
   E.   For any use requiring the storage of fuel or hazardous material, the
use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a hospital.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-26: ROADSIDE STAND, AGRICULTURE:
A roadside stand shall not be larger than three hundred (300) square feet and
shall be limited to the sale of agriculture products. The stand must meet the
minimum required setback from a road right-of-way and must have adequate room
for vehicle parking to prevent a traffic hazard. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff.
10-26-2012)
10-7-27: RECEPTION CENTER, WEDDING (OUTSIDE COMMERCIAL ZONE):
With a conditional use permit, these facilities may be located on land outside
a commercial zone, containing no less than three (3) acres and shall meet the
following:
   A. Located with full consideration of their proximity and effect to adjacent
use of property and the surrounding area, and to the reduction of such nuisance
factors as lights, traffic and noise.
   B.   Be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent the
creation of a nuisance.
   C.   Subject to the health authority requirements for adequate lavatory and
hand washing facilities based on the maximum number of guests.
   D.   All food preparation and service on the premises will be subject to
health authority requirements.
   E.   Dust controlled parking facility will be required with adequate ingress
and egress as approved by the Public Works Department. Parking area will be
marked and have a minimum of one space for every five (5) guests, plus one for
every delivery and service vehicle.
   F.   Any other applicable restrictions deemed by the commission for safety.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-28: RECYCLING CENTER AND SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION:
   A.   The site shall be screened from the street(s) by a sight obscuring
fence. The fence shall be of sufficient height so that no storage containers
shall be visible above the required screening.
   B.   All grounds and facilities shall be maintained in an orderly manner so
as not to create a public nuisance.
   C.   All mechanical equipment emissions; power driven processing (including,
but not limited to, aluminum foil and can compacting, baling, plastic
shredding, or other processing activities necessary for efficient temporary
storage and shipment of materials); and/or other outdoor activity areas shall
be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from any abutting residential
zones.
   D.   All driveways into and through the facility and any open area with a
driving surface shall be surfaced with a dustless material including, but not
limited to, asphalt, concrete, pavers or bricks. All driveways shall be kept
open and passable by emergency vehicles.
   E.   For any use requiring the storage of fuel or hazardous material, the
use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a hospital.
   F.   Additional standards for recycling centers:
      1.   Any container provided for after hour donation of recyclable
materials shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any abutting residential
zone, shall be of sturdy construction and shall have sufficient capacity to
accommodate materials collected.
      2.   Except for after hour donation containers, no unsorted material
shall be stored outside. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-29: SALVAGE YARD:
   A.   These facilities shall be completely enclosed by a minimum eight foot
(8') sight obscuring fence, or berm, or barrier of a height that successfully
obscures vision of the salvage yard contents.
   B.   A fence plan and materials list must be approved by the commission and
the Building Department. All fence material(s) must be with new construction of
eight foot (8') vertical metal or eight foot (8') chain link with sight
obscuring slats. All required permits for the fence must be obtained prior to
the start of construction. The fence must be completed and inspected prior to
operating the salvage yard.
   C.   The storage of automobiles, junk, or salvage material shall not exceed
the height of the fence and must be located within the confines of the fenced
area.
   D.   Automobiles, junk, or salvage material shall not be stored outside the
required fence and shall not be visible from a public right-of-way.
   E.   An area for processing vehicles as they are brought to the site shall
be designated on a site plan. The processing area shall be on concrete or
asphalt that has a means to collect and properly dispose of oils and fluids in
the vehicles and be located within the confines of the fenced area.
   F.   Accessory uses, such as car crushing, must be approved by conditional
use permit if located within five hundred feet (500') of a residence other than
a dwelling that may be on site.
   G.   The permitted yard must have an adequate on site parking and loading
area.
   H.   All approvals and requirements from State and/or local agencies must be
obtained prior to the operation of the salvage yard. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-30: SCHOOL:
   A.   Accessory uses: Accessory uses including, but not limited to, daycare
facilities, special events, community services, social services, meeting
facilities for clubs and organizations, and school administration may be
allowed.
   B.   Location criteria for elementary schools: Elementary schools should be
located within the center of neighborhoods with access encouraged from local
streets. Elementary school locations adjacent to public parks or open space are
encouraged.
   C.   Location criteria for middle schools and high schools: Middle and high
schools may take access off a designated arterial or collector street.
   D.   An education institution with less than one hundred fifty (150)
students may be exempt from the requirements for open space and landscaping as
determined by the commission.
   E.   A conditional use permit shall be required for any education
institution in which any of the following circumstances exist:
      1.   The education institution is in excess of two hundred fifty thousand
(250,000) square feet within a residential zone.
      2.   The education institution includes lighted sports fields adjoining
or within a residential zone.
      3.   The education institution will generate in excess of one thousand
five hundred (1,500) vehicular trips per day.
      4.   The education institution takes access from a collector or an
arterial street and there is not a safe, separate pedestrian and bikeway access
between the neighborhood and the school site.
   F.   Portable classrooms that are not indicated on an approved conditional
use or certificate of zoning compliance shall require administrative approval.
If the proposed use cannot meet all of the following specific use standards,
the use shall require conditional use approval:
      1.   The portable classroom shall not be located in the front yard of the
principal school structure.
      2.   The portable classroom shall not be located in any required yard
setbacks.
      3.   The placement of the portable classroom shall not reduce the number
of required off street parking spaces.
      4.   The portable structures shall comply with the currently adopted
Building Code.
   G.   Additional standards for education institution, private: The applicant
shall provide written documentation that the facility meets the minimum site
area guidelines as established by the Idaho State Department of Education.
   H.   Additional standards for vocational or trade schools: The applicant
shall provide written documentation that the school will have a major
curriculum relating to technological industrial research and processes. (Ord.
2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-31: SIGNS:
Signs shall be considered structures. These regulations are not intended to and
do not limit the lawful content of those signs allowed for general advertising
purposes. All appropriate building permits and approvals from the Bingham
County Public Works Department or Idaho Transportation Department shall be
obtained before construction begins.
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Except for highway signs, no sign shall be located within any road
right-of-way nor located to impede visibility at an intersection.
      2.   All signs shall be continually maintained in a state of good
appearance, security, safety and repair throughout their life. Nothing in this
Code shall relieve the owner or user of any sign or owner of property on which
a sign is located from maintaining the sign in a safe condition and in a state
of good repair.
      3.   No freestanding permanent sign shall be erected in the same
horizontal plane with other signs unless spaced at least fifty feet (50')
apart.
      4.   Signs shall not be permitted in the clear vision triangle as set
forth by Idaho Code or Bingham County Public Works.
      5.   Applicable permits such as a building permit and/or a conditional
use permit shall be obtained prior to the erections of sign(s).
   B.   Permitted Signs In Any Zone: The following types of signs, when not
illuminated, do not require a conditional use permit but must comply with the
applicable requirements of this subsection:
      1.   Any sign which is visible only from the parcel or building/structure
on which it is located.
      2.   Active bona fide campaign or political signs.
      3.   Property signs advertising the availability of property for sale,
lease, or rent, including realtor signs.
      4.   Home signs. An accessory sign or nameplate announcing the names of
the owners or occupants of the premises, house numbers, nameplates or the name
of the home occupation conducted thereon in accordance with subsection 10-7-20C
of this chapter.
      5.   Memorial signs or tablets and names of buildings and dates of
erection when cut into the surface or facade of the building.
      6.   Signs placed by a public utility showing the location of underground
facilities.
      7.   Traffic or other signs required by law, railroad crossing signs,
legal notices and such temporary emergency or nonadvertising signs as may be
authorized by the Board.
      8.   Directional or informational signs bearing no advertising message
located within a parcel, and signs not exceeding four (4) square feet in area,
erected for the convenience of the public, such as signs identifying restrooms,
public telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities.
      9.   Temporary construction signs erected no more than ninety (90) days
prior to the beginning of construction and removed within thirty (30) days
after completion of construction.
      10.   Conventional flags, emblems or insignia of any national or
political subdivision or corporation.
      11.   "No Trespassing" or "No Dumping" signs that do not exceed four (4)
square feet in area per sign. Special permission may be obtained from the
Administrator for larger signs where it can be demonstrated a unique hazardous
or public nuisance conditions exist.
      12.   Historical signs or markers.
      13.   Subdivision identification signs: Two (2) subdivision
identification signs are allowed per entrance on different sides of the
entrance. Subdivision identification signs shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(20') back from the right-of-way line of the perpendicular street.
   C.   Prohibited Signs In Any Zone: The following types of signs are
prohibited in all zones:
      1.   Private signs within public right-of-way.
      2.   Signs which because of color, wording, design, size, movement,
location or illumination resemble or conflict with any traffic control device
or with the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
      3.   Signs that emit any sound, odor or visible matter.
      4.   Abandoned signs.
      5.   Reader boards in all residential zones, except as approved with a
conditional use permit.
      6.   Signs for illegal uses.
      7.   Signs with any offensive material prohibited by the State of Idaho.
   D.   Specially Permitted Signs:
      1.   Commercial advertising signs may be allowed with a conditional use
permit in commercial or manufacturing zones with the following standards:
         a.   That the location and placement of the sign will not endanger
motorists or pedestrians and does not interfere with the clear vision triangle
at street, railroad, or street driveway intersections.
         b.   That the sign will not cover or blanket any prominent view of a
structure or facade of historical or architectural significance.
         c.   That the sign's lighting will not cause hazardous or unsafe
driving conditions for motorists and will not glare, reflect, or spill onto
adjacent business or residential area.
      2.   There shall be an I-15 sign overlay located within an area three
hundred feet (300') from and parallel to the right-of- way line of I-15 on both
the east and west sides of the interstate. Freestanding signs and wall signs
within the I-15 sign overlay shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Not more than two (2) freeway oriented signs shall be allowed on
any single building or structure.
         b.   A freestanding sign located within the I-15 sign overlay shall
not exceed forty feet (40') in height.
         c.   The minimum distance between freestanding signs within the I-15
sign overlay is five hundred feet (500').
         d.   No freestanding freeway oriented signs shall be allowed in a
residential zone except those that identify the property.
      3.   Public schools shall be allowed one on premises animated sign where
the animation is a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the sign background area,
regardless of the zone in which the school is located. An alternative off
premises location where it provides better information to the community may be
allowed by a conditional use permit regardless of the zone. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-
9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-32: STORAGE FACILITY, OUTSIDE:
   A.   Materials shall be stored within the required yards. Stored items shall
not block sidewalks or parking areas and may not impede vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
   B.   The site shall not be used as "vehicle wrecking or junk yard" as herein
defined.
   C.   Accessory outside storage shall be allowed for approved uses subject to
the following standards:
      1.   Outside storage of materials for commercial or industrial uses shall
be limited to those items owned or used by the business.
      2.   Outside storage of materials for a residential development or
recreational vehicle park shall be only for recreational vehicles or personal
recreation items of the owners and/or tenants.
      3.   Outside storage of materials for individual residential properties
shall be screened with a six foot (6') site obscuring fence.
   D.   For any use requiring the storage of fuel or hazardous material, the
use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a hospital.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-33: STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE:
   A.   Storage units and/or areas shall not be used as dwellings or as a
commercial or industrial place of business. The manufacture or sale of any item
by a tenant from or at a self- service storage facility is specifically
prohibited.
   B.   On site auctions of unclaimed items by the storage facility owners
shall be allowed as a temporary use.
   C.   The distance between structures shall be a minimum of twenty five feet
(25').
   D.   No structure, facility, drive lane, parking area, or loading areas
shall be located adjacent to a residential zone without a solid berm or wall.
   E.   The facility shall have a second means of access for emergency
purposes.
   F.   All outdoor storage of material shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance. Materials shall be stored within
the required yards. Stored items shall not block sidewalks or parking areas and
may not impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   G.   The site shall not be used as "vehicle wrecking or junk yard" as herein
defined.
   H.   For any use requiring the storage of fuel or hazardous material, the
use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a hospital.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-34: TERMINAL, FREIGHT OR TRUCK:
   A.   The use shall be located with direct access on a principal arterial or
near an interstate interchange, and with no access through residential streets.
   B.   No outdoor activity area shall be located within three hundred feet
(300') from any residential zone.
   C.   The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from
any hospital.
   D.   Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of
vehicles (including, but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps,
garages for minor repair) may be allowed.
   E.   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval
from the Idaho Division of Environmental Quality and the appropriate fire
district. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-35: TOWER; BROADCAST, CELL, TELECOMMUNICATION:
   A.   Documentation: The applicant shall provide the following documentation
with the request for approval of a wireless communication facility:
      1.   Documentation from a qualified and licensed engineer showing that
the proposed facility will be in compliance with the FCC Standards Regarding
Radio Frequency (RF) Emissions.
      2.   A report from a qualified and licensed structural engineer that
describes the tower height and design. The report shall include the following:
a cross section of the tower, elevations that document the height above grade
for all potential mounting positions for collocated antennas, and the minimum
separation distances between antennas. The report must also include a
description of the tower's capacity regarding the number and type of antennas
that it can accommodate and what precautions the applicant will take to avoid
interference with established public safety telecommunications. This report
must be stamped by the structural engineer and include other information
necessary to evaluate the request.
      3.   A statement regarding compliance with regulations administered and
enforced by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      4.   Propagation charts showing existing and proposed transmission
coverage at the subject site and within an area large enough to provide an
understanding of why the facility needs to be in the chosen location.
      5.   A written analysis demonstrating that the proposed site is the most
appropriate site within the immediate area. The analysis shall include, but is
not limited to, the following:
         a.   Description of the surrounding area, including topography.
         b.   Natural and manmade impediments, if any, that would obstruct
adequate wireless telephone transmissions.
      c.   Physical site constraints, if any, that would preclude construction
of a wireless communications facility on any other site.
      d.   Technical limitations of the system that limit siting options.
      e.   Statement indicating minimal interference with existing farming
operations.
   B.   Design Standards: All new communications towers shall meet the
following minimum design standards:
      1.   Towers and antennas shall be required to blend into the surrounding
environment by paint or other camouflaging architectural treatment, except in
instances where the color is dictated by Federal or State authorities such as
the Federal Aviation Administration. All metal shall be corrosive resistant or
treated to prevent corrosion.
      2.   No part of any antenna, disk, array or other such item attached to a
communications tower shall be permitted to overhang any part of the right-of-
way or property line.
      3.   The base of all towers shall be surrounded by an eight foot (8')
chain link security fence.
      4.   All climbing pegs within the bottom twenty feet (20') of the tower
shall be removed except when the tower is being serviced.
      5.   All lighting on the tower, other than may be required by the FAA,
shall be prohibited.
      6.   No signs or banners shall be attached to any portion of a wireless
communications tower.
   C.   Setback Standards:
      1.   In addition to the setbacks found in sections
10-6-3 and
10-6-5 of this title, additional setback requirements shall be one fall height
plus thirty feet (30'), from adjoining property lines and County road rights-
of-way unless certified by an Idaho licensed engineer that the design will
collapse upon itself or be designed to fall within a specific radius.
      2.   Only the accessory equipment building shall be permitted to be
located within the fall zone.
   D.   Collocation Standards: A proposal for a new commercial communications
tower should not be approved unless the decision making body finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower.
   E.   Tower Designed For Additional Users: All proposed communications towers
shall be designed (structurally, electrically, and in all respects) to
accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least
two (2) additional users if the tower is over one hundred ten feet (110') in
height and for at least one additional user if the tower is over fifty feet
(50') in height.
   F.   Abandoned Or Unused Towers Or Portions Of Towers: All abandoned or
unused towers and associated facilities shall be required to be removed within
one hundred eighty (180) days of cessation of use as a wireless communication
facility, unless a time extension is granted by the commission. A copy of the
relevant portions of a signed lease, which requires the applicant to remove the
tower and associated facilities upon cessation of the use as a wireless
communication facility, shall be submitted at the time of application.
   G.   Height Allowance; Conditional Use Permit; Notice: In accordance with
Idaho Code section 67-6512, the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall notify
property owners where a conditional use permit is requested by reason of height
allowance that notice shall be provided individually by mail to property owners
or purchasers of record within no less than three (3) times the distance of the
height of the allowed height of a structure when more than one hundred feet
(100') and within no less than one mile when the peak height of a structure in
an unincorporated area is four hundred feet (400') or more and, when four
hundred feet (400') or more, the structure's proposed location and height shall
be stated in the notice.
   H.   Federally Licensed Amateur Radio Stations: This Chapter shall not
govern any tower that is at or under seventy (70) feet in height and is owned
and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC). Support structures and antennas for private
use on licensed frequencies may be constructed in any zone as a permitted use,
however, an approved Building Permit is required. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-7-36: TRANSMISSION LINE (POWER):
A. All transmission line siting and substations not specifically exempted under
FERC regulations shall require a conditional use permit as per chapter 8 of
this title.
B. The conditional use application shall contain the approving signatures of
all landowners that the transmission line sets on or crosses. An owner signed
letter of intent or easement is acceptable.
C. Electric substations and other utility structures shall be deemed outdoor
storage areas and shall meet the standards in section
10-7-32 of this chapter.
D. Towers for the purpose of communicating from the substation to remote
devices shall be deemed an accessory use to an approved substation; provided,
that the pole and antenna are no taller than the existing towers.
E. The applicant shall provide documentation that the tower and line locations
will minimize impact on existing or future farming and crop spraying operations
to the extent possible. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-37: VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD:
A. Outside storage and outside activity areas shall be maintained in an orderly
manner so as not to create a public nuisance.
B. No portion of the vehicle impound yard, outside storage areas and/or outside
activity areas may be visible from any highway, interstate, gateway corridor,
principal arterial, or minor arterial as herein defined.
C. All materials shall be stored within the required yards.
D. Stored items shall not block sidewalks or parking areas and may not impede
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
E. Closed vision fence or wall and screening materials shall be a minimum of
eight feet (8') in height.
F. A fence plan and materials list must be approved by the commission and the
Building Department. All fence material(s) must be with new construction
material of eight foot (8') vertical height of metal or chain link with sight
obscuring slats. All required permits for the fence must be obtained prior to
the start of construction. The fence must be completed and inspected prior to
operating the impound yard.
G. Outdoor storage shall be incorporated into the overall design of buildings
and landscaping so that the visual and acoustic impacts of these functions are
fully contained and out of view from adjacent properties and public streets.
H. No vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed the height of the
fence or wall.
I. The use shall not constitute a junkyard as herein defined. (Ord. 2012-08,
10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-38: VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR AND MINOR:
A. Where adjoining a residential property or zone, all repair activities
(including, but not limited to, open pits and lifts) shall occur within an
enclosed structure.
B. Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a closed
vision fence, wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not be
visible from the street or a residential zone. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff.
10-26-2012)
10-7-39: VEHICLE SALES OR RENTAL:
A. Vehicle repair may be allowed as an accessory use, subject to the standards
for vehicle repair, major and minor, in the zone where the use is located.
B. Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a closed
vision fence, wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not be
visible from any street or residential zone. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-
26-2012)
10-7-40: VEHICLE WASHING FACILITY:
A. A site plan shall be submitted that demonstrates safe pedestrian and
vehicular access and circulation on the site and between adjacent properties.
At a minimum, the application shall demonstrate compliance with the following
standards:
1. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the
public right-of-way by patrons.
2. The stacking lane shall be a separate lane from the circulation lanes needed
for access and parking.
3. The stacking lane shall not be located within one hundred feet (100') of any
residential zone or existing residence.
B. Within the industrial zones, a vehicle washing facility shall be allowed
only as an accessory use to a gasoline or diesel fuel sales facility for use by
nonpassenger vehicles. The vehicle washing facility shall be limited in
capacity to a single vehicle. The intent is to discourage facilities that cater
to passenger vehicles.
C. Any use that is not fully enclosed shall be located a minimum one hundred
feet (100') from any abutting residential zone. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff.
10-26-2012)
10-7-41: VEHICLE WRECKING YARD OR JUNKYARD:
A. Outside storage and outside activity areas shall be located behind a fence
or wall and screening materials shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') in
height.
B. No portion of the vehicle impound yard, outside storage areas and/or outside
activity areas may be visible from any highway, interstate, principal arterial,
or minor arterial.
C. All materials or parts shall be stored and located within a closed vision
fence or walled area. Salvage materials shall be stored so they do not exceed
the height of the fence or wall for more than thirty (30) days.
D. A fence plan and materials list must be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Building Department. All fence material(s) must be with new
construction of eight foot (8') vertical metal or eight foot (8') chain link
with sight obscuring slats. All required permits for the fence must be obtained
prior to the start of construction. The fence must be completed and inspected
prior to operating the salvage yard.
E. All structures or outside activity areas shall be located a minimum of one
thousand feet (1,000') from any residential zone.
F. An area for processing vehicles as they are brought to the site shall be
designated on a site plan. The processing area shall be on concrete or asphalt
surface that has a means to collect and properly dispose of oils and fluids in
the vehicles and must be located within the confines of the fenced area.
G. The applicant shall obtain all necessary permits for the storage of
materials on the site, including, but not limited to, oil, hazardous waste, and
tires.
H. No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a vehicle wrecking yard, any
portion of which is within one thousand feet (1,000') of the nearest edge of
the right-of-way and visible from any highway, interstate or arterial as herein
defined as per Idaho Code section 40-313. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-7-42: VETERINARY CLINIC:
Veterinary clinics shall comply with all State and local regulations relative
to such an operation and shall maintain adequate housekeeping practices
designed to prevent the creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the
factors of noise and odor. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-43: WAREHOUSE:
   A.   Accessory Uses Allowed: Office not to exceed twenty five percent (25%)
and retail sales not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total enclosed area of
the use.
   B.   Outside Activity Areas: Outside activity areas shall be located a
minimum of three hundred feet (300') from any property line adjoining a
residential zone. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-7-44: WIND TURBINES:
   A.   General Provisions: All new wind turbines shall meet the following
minimum design standards:
      1.   Detailed Site Plan: A detailed site plan identifying all property
lines, existing buildings, proposed buildings, parking areas, utilities, signs,
neighboring properties, proposed transmission lines, any other information that
may be required to determine if use is within the intent and requirements of
this title shall be submitted.
      2.   Setbacks: Each wind turbine shall comply with the following minimum
requirements:
         a. One and one-half (11/2) times its total height (blade tip to ground
level) from nearest aboveground public electric power or telephone line, public
road, and railroad right-of-way.
         b. Three (3) times the total tower height (blade tip to ground level)
or less than forty five (45) dbs per manufacturer's listing from the nearest
existing residence, school, hospital, church, place of employment or public
library, unless mitigation has taken place and agreed by owner/operator and
affected property owners involved and recorded in the Bingham County Recorder's
Office which describes the benefited and burdened properties and which advises
all subsequent owners of the burdened property; but in no case less than one
and one- half (11/2) times its total height.
      3.   Minimum Ground Clearance: The tip of a blade shall, at its lowest
point, have a ground clearance of no less than twenty feet (20').
      4.   Building Permit: A building permit is required and must comply with
the currently adopted Building Code.
      5.   Applicable Standards: The system shall comply with all applicable
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Standards.
      6.   Color: Wind turbines shall be painted a nonreflective, nonobtrusive
color.
      7.   Design: The design of the buildings and related structures shall, to
the extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend the facility to the natural setting and existing
environment.
      8.   Advertising: Shall not be used for displaying any advertising except
for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or operator. Any such
identification shall not appear on the blades or other moving parts or exceed
six (6) square feet.
      9.   Electrical Controls And Power Lines: Electrical controls and control
wiring and power lines shall be underground except where wind farm collector
wiring is brought together for connection to the transmission or distribution
network, adjacent to that network.
      10.   Lighting: Shall not be artificially lighted, except to the extent
required by the FAA or other applicable authority.
      11.   Time Line: A time line prior to the construction phase of the
project shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Department identifying
the starting and completion date of all construction.
      12.   Not Climbable: Wind turbines shall not be easily climbable for a
minimum of twenty feet (20') above ground level.
      13.   Access Doors: All access doors to the wind turbine towers and
electrical equipment shall be lockable and locked when unattended.
      14.   Warning Signage: Appropriate warning signage shall be placed on all
wind turbine towers, electrical equipment and facility entrances.
   B.   Hobbyist Wind Turbine:
      1.   Less than sixty feet (60') in height and a prop diameter of twelve
feet (12') or less.
      2.   Applicant must provide proven documented verification that wind
turbine is structurally sound.
      3.   Limited to two (2) wind turbines per parcel.
      4.   Approved project construction must be started within twelve (12)
months from date of approval.
   C.   Personal Wind Turbine:
      1.   Total height is between sixty feet (60') and one hundred fifty feet
(150') and the nameplate is less than one hundred kilowatts (100 kW).
      2.   Applicant must provide proven documented verification that wind
turbine is structurally sound.
      3.   Limited to two (2) wind turbines per parcel.
      4.   Approved project construction must be started within eighteen (18)
months from date of approval.
   D.   Commercial Wind Turbine:
      1.   Total Height: Total height exceeds one hundred fifty feet (150') or
the nameplate capacity exceeds one hundred kilowatts (100 kW).
      2.   Site Plan: In addition to the general requirements listed above, the
site plan shall also include:
         a. 2-D computer rending, to scale, of surrounding area and all
proposed turbine(s) including unbuilt but approved turbines; along with a view
of all existing residences from the two (2) most populated areas.
         b. Include a table of GPS coordinates of all proposed wind turbines
and existing residences within one mile.
      3.   Setbacks:
         a. Commercial wind turbines shall have an additional one mile setback
from all platted Town sites and/or incorporated cities.
         b. Three (3) times the total tower height (blade tip to ground level)
to the nearest exterior line of the project unless mitigation has taken place
and agreed by owner/operator and affected property owners involved and recorded
in the Bingham County Recorder's Office which describes the benefited and
burdened properties and which advises all subsequent owners; but in no case
less than one and one-half (11/2) times its total height from a residence.
      4.   Minimum Ground Clearance: The tip of a blade shall, at its lowest
point, have a ground clearance of no less than seventy five feet (75').
      5.   Road Damage: Any road damage must be repaired by the permit holder
after notification by the Bingham County Public Works Department within a time
period determined by the Bingham County Public Works Department.
      6.   Reclamation: A detailed decommissioning and reclamation plan in
accordance with State and Federal law. The owner/operator of commercial wind
energy facility and/or property owner is responsible for removing the wind
turbines and related facilities when no longer useful. They must remove the
turbines and facilities within three (3) years of the end of electricity
generation unless a new plan is proposed to reuse the turbines. Reclamation
shall be restored to its original state before wind energy facility site
construction.
      7.   Decommissioning: A decommissioning bond must be provided to the
landowner. Decommissioning requirements, transfer with ownership of the turbine
or ownership of wind facility and/or property owner.
      8.   Notification: Evidence of notification with FAA, United States Fish
and Wildlife Services, DEQ, and the appropriate Fire Department must be
submitted by the applicant to the Planning and Zoning Department prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
      9.   Area Identified By Fish And Wildlife: If an area is identified by
Fish and Wildlife Services to house a significant bird population, a monopole
tubular type tower shall be used instead of lattice type towers.
      10.   Phases: If project will be developed in phases, the phase lines
must be identified on the detailed site plan. Each phase must be completed
within a reasonable time line.
      11.   Conditional Use Hearing: The commission shall conduct a conditional
use hearing as required by the land use chart, following the procedures as
identified in section
10-3-6 of this title.
      12.   Permit Requested: In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6512,
the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall notify property owners where a
conditional use permit is requested by reason of height allowance that notice
shall be provided individually by mail to property owners or purchasers of
record within no less than three (3) times the distance of the height of the
allowed height of a structure when more than one hundred feet (100') and within
no less than one mile when the peak height of a structure in an unincorporated
area is four hundred feet (400') or more and, when four hundred feet (400') or
more, the structure's proposed location and height shall be stated in the
notice. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 8
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
SECTION:
10-8-1: General Statement
10-8-2: Contents Of Application For Permit
10-8-3: Review Of Application
10-8-4: Additional Studies
10-8-5: Land Use Time Limitations
10-8-6: Hearing And Notice
10-8-7: Action By Commission
10-8-8: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-8-9: Appeal To Board
10-8-10: Request For Time Extension For Permit
10-8-11: Revocation Of Permit
10-8-12: Modification Of Approved Permit
10-8-1: GENERAL STATEMENT:
   A.   It is recognized that an increasing number of uses are appearing that
have characteristics of a unique and special nature such that the specific use
must be considered individually. We recognize that these uses are not permitted
without adding certain conditions making them compatible with permitted uses in
the underlying zone. The commission may require higher standards of site
development than those listed specifically in this title in order to assure
that the proposed use will be compatible with other conforming property and
uses in the vicinity.
   B.   The commission shall hold a public hearing on each conditional use
permit as listed on the land use chart and new uses brought by the
Administrator. The commission may approve, conditionally approve or deny a
conditional use permit under the standards listed in this chapter and may
require such additional safeguards that will uphold the intent of this title.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
Administrator by the property owner or by the occupant with owner approval. At
a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of the property.
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Current zoning designation.
   E.   Description of use being proposed.
   F.   A scaled site plan/drawing showing the location of the following:
      1.   All buildings, parking and loading area.
      2.   Traffic access and traffic circulation.
      3.   Open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas.
      4.   Utilities, signs.
      5.   Any other information that may be required to determine if the
proposed conditional use meets the requirements of this title.
      6.   A statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property that may
include, but is not limited to, such elements as noise, odor, fumes and
vibration. An accurate statement of the compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the zone, and the relationship of the proposed use to the plan.
      7.   More specifically, the following adverse effects shall be mitigated
through setbacks, buffers, sound attenuation and/or hours of operation:
         a.   Noise, odor, or vibrations, or direct or reflected glare
detectable by the human senses without the aid of instruments.
         b.   Radioactivity and electric or electromagnetic disturbances that
unduly interfere with the normal operation of equipment, instruments, or
appliances on abutting properties.
         c.   Any other emission or radiation that endangers human health,
results in damages to vegetation or property or which exceeds health and safety
standards.
   G.   The appropriate filing fees. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-3: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
   A.   The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of
each proposed conditional use permit in terms of the following standards and
shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location
will:
      1.   Constitute a conditional use as established on the official schedule
of zoning regulations or as determined by the commission to be a conditional
use for the zone involved.
      2.   Be in accordance with the general objectives or with any specific
objection of the Comprehensive Plan and/or this title.
      3.   Be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be appropriate
in appearance with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity
and that such use will not change the essential character of the area as far as
is possible.
      4.   Not be unduly hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses; nor involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to persons, property or
the general welfare of the public by reason of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, odors or other pollutants.
      5.   Not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the County.
      6.   Be served adequately by essential public facilities and services or
that the persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed
use shall be able to provide such services.
      7.   Have legal access to the subject property for the development. Have
vehicular approaches to the property that are designed to eliminate a traffic
hazard on adjacent public thoroughfares.
      8.   Not result in the destruction, loss or damage to a scenic or
historic feature of major importance.
      9.   If applicable, have adequate water, sewer, irrigation, drainage and
stormwater drainage facilities, and have utility systems provided to
accommodate said use.
   B.   If the literal enforcement of the provisions herein contained would
result in unnecessary hardship, the commission may consider exceptions to
nonconforming uses as permitted in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-
9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-4: ADDITIONAL STUDIES:
Prior to making a decision concerning a conditional use permit request, the
commission or Board may request additional studies at the applicant's expense,
of the social, economic, fiscal, and environmental effects of the proposed
conditional use permit. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-5: LAND USE TIME LIMITATIONS:
   A.   When a conditional use permit is granted, the land use or construction
of its facility proposed in the application must have commenced within three
(3) years of the date of the final decision by the commission, or the Board or
a court of appropriate jurisdiction, if appealed, and completed within five (5)
years of the same date. The following exceptions shall be limited to ten (10)
years of the date of the final decision by the commission or the Board or a
court of appropriated jurisdiction, if appealed. If the use is not implemented
within this time period, the use and its approval shall expire:
      1.   Gravel pits in other than A or A/NR Zones.
      2.   Electrical public service facilities.
      3.   Commercial wind turbines in other than A or A/NR Zones.
   B.   Upon expiration of the use or the approval of that use as provided by
this section, the applicant may seek approval of the use only by filing a new
initial application for review by the commission. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-6: HEARING AND NOTICE:
Prior to granting a conditional use permit, the commission shall follow the
hearing procedures as identified in chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-
9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-7: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   The commission shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application as presented. If more information is needed for a determination to
grant a conditional use permit, the commission may request information from the
planning staff or public agencies concerning social, economic, fiscal and
environmental effects of the proposed conditional use. If the application is
approved or approved with modifications, the commission shall direct the
Administrator to issue a conditional use permit listing the conditions
specified for approval.
   B.   The commission may attach conditions that include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that plans are developed to properly maintain the project.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title.
      7.   Requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed development upon
service delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts,
providing services within the planning jurisdiction. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-8: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
The commission may prescribe appropriate conditions, bonds and safeguards in
conformity with this title over and above those listed in section
10-8-7 of this chapter. Violations of any conditions, bonds or safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the conditional use permit is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this title.
   A.   Upon granting or denying an application, the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
   B.   A conditional use permit shall not be considered as establishing a
binding precedent to grant other conditional use permits. A conditional use
permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another. (Ord. 2012-08,
10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-9: APPEAL TO BOARD:
The applicant or any affected person may appeal the decision of the commission
to the Board, following the hearing procedures requirements of chapters 3 and
10 of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-10: REQUEST FOR TIME EXTENSION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   An applicant may request extension of the time period provided by this
section by filing an application for extension with either the commission or
the Board depending on who approved the conditional use permit.
      1.   Such application must be filed at least sixty (60) calendar days
prior to the date of expiration.
      2.   The matter shall be heard at a public hearing before the commission
or the Board, whichever made the final decision, in accordance with the notice
and hearing procedures of chapter 3 of this title.
      3.   A renewal extension, if granted, shall be limited to three hundred
sixty five (365) calendar days.
   B.   The commission or the Board, whoever made the final decision, may
extend the commencement period or the completion period as provided in
subsection A of this chapter upon proof of good cause by the applicant. Good
cause shall be determined at the discretion of the commission or the Board.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
A conditional use permit may be revoked upon violation of any of the conditions
imposed therein. The Administrator or designee shall verify that a violation
has occurred. The permit holder shall be notified that a violation has been
noted and shall be given a reasonable time to correct said violation. If
compliance is not or cannot be reached within an approved time, the
Administrator shall notify the commission or Board, whichever approved the
original conditional use permit, so that they may review the preponderance of
the evidence to determine if after due process the conditional use permit
should or should not be revoked. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-8-12: MODIFICATION OF APPROVED PERMIT:
   A.   A conditional use permit or previously approved special use permit may
be modified upon a request of the Board, commission or the property owner(s).
The Board or commission shall follow the same hearing procedures as per chapter
3 of this title for a conditional use permit.
   B.   Modification shall only be granted if the Board or commission finds
that the modification is consistent with the provisions of the plan and will
not be detrimental to the general public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Intent
10-9-2: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
10-9-3: Single Nonconforming Parcels Of Record
10-9-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Structures And Land In Combination
10-9-5: Repairs And Maintenance
10-9-6: Conditional Use Provisions Not Nonconforming Uses
10-9-7: Exception To Nonconforming Use Provision
10-9-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their expansion unless approved by
conditional use permit. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-9-2: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building or land
which was lawfully approved prior to the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-9-3: SINGLE NONCONFORMING PARCELS OF RECORD:
In any zone in which a single-family dwelling is not permitted, or in any zone
in which a larger parcel area is required, a single-family dwelling and
customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single parcel of record on
the effective date hereof, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this title. Subsequent amendments to this title will not remove
the right to build on a parcel that was established as a legally buildable lot,
for residential purposes, at any time under the provisions of this title, as
long as the parcel complies with the Health Department regulations. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-9-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR STRUCTURES AND LAND IN COMBINATION:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the zone under the terms of this title, the
use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the zone in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed or
moved except in changing the structure to a use permitted in the zone in which
it is located.
   B.   No nonconforming use of land, structure, or combination of land and
structure shall be extended to occupy any additional area, unless approved by
conditional use permit.
   C.   Any nonconforming structure or land use may be changed to another
nonconforming use upon the issuance of a conditional use permit, provided the
commission shall find the proposed use is equally appropriate to the zone. The
commission may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with
other provisions of this title.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any owner
occupied nonconforming structure which has been damaged by fire, flood, wind,
earthquake or other calamity may be rebuilt with the same or less square
footage and upon the same footprint of the destroyed building; provided,
however, that every option of such new building conform to all provisions of
the adopted Building Code.
   E.   Any structure or structure and land in combination in or on which a
nonconforming use is followed by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations of the zoning and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be
resumed.
   F.   When a nonconforming use of a structure or structure and land in
combination is discontinued or abandoned as per Idaho Code section 67-6538, the
structure or structure and land in combination shall not thereafter be used
except in conformity with the regulations of the zoning in which it is located.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-9-5: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-9-6: CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING USES:
Any use which is permitted by a conditional use permit in a zone under the
terms of this title shall be considered a conforming use, as long as it
continues to comply with the conditional use permit requirements. (Ord. 2012-
08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-9-7: EXCEPTION TO NONCONFORMING USE PROVISION:
The commission may authorize, by conditional use permit due to special
circumstances, an exception to the nonconforming use provisions as allowed for
by Idaho Code section 67-6512(d). (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 10
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Administrative Appeal
10-10-2: Appeal Of A Planning And Zoning Commission Decision
10-10-3: Reconsideration Of A Decision By The Board Of County Commissioners
10-10-4: Remand By Board Of County Commissioners To The Planning And Zoning
Commission
10-10-5: Judicial Review
10-10-6: Request for Hearing by Affected Persons
10-10-7: Variances
10-10-1: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL:
Appeals to the commission concerning interpretation or administration of this
title may be made by any person or agency aggrieved or affected by any decision
of the Administrator.
   A.   Such appeal shall be made within fourteen (14) calendar days after
receiving the decision of the Administrator by filing with the Administrator a
notice of appeal. The appeal shall be accompanied with the filing fee, in an
amount set by the Board of County Commissioners and adopted by Resolution,
which shall be paid at the same time the appeal is filed. The written appeal
must specify which portions of the decision the appellant finds to be in error
and explain the appellant’s reasons for determining that the decision is in
error and contrary to the provisions of this title. Any supplemental
information regarding the appeal must be submitted no later than seven (7) days
prior to the date set for the appeal.
   B.   An administrative appeal shall not stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action taken by the Administrator unless granted by the Board or by a
court based upon an application showing due cause.
   C.   Upon receipt of an administrative appeal, the commission shall allow
all affected persons, within 300 feet of the subject parcel and the appellant
(s), an opportunity to be heard. At least seven (7) days prior to said
opportunity, notice shall be given to those affected persons by mail delivery.
   D.   The Administrator shall transmit to the commission all papers
constituting the record upon which the appeal is based.
   E.   The commission shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
appeal. Upon granting or denying an appeal, the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance, facts and standards used in evaluating the
application; and
      2.   The reasons and rationale for approval or denial.
   F.   The commission shall make their decision within a reasonable time.
   G.   Once the decision is made, the applicant, any affected person, or the
Administrator may appeal the decision of the commission to the Board. The
appeal shall be filed with the Administrator before five o’clock (5:00) P.M. of
the fourteenth calendar day following the commission’s action and follow the
procedures set forth in Section 10-10-2.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-10-2: APPEAL OF A PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION DECISION:
   A.   Any applicant or any other affected person may file an appeal of the
commissions’ decision within fourteen (14) days of the commissions’ written
decision once approved in writing. The Board shall serve as the decision-making
body for appeals of decisions of the commission. Notice of the appeal shall be
filed with the Planning Administrator, in writing, and in accordance with Idaho
Code Section 67-6535. The appeal shall be accompanied with the filing fee, in
an amount set by the Board and adopted by Resolution, and shall be paid at the
same time the appeal is filed. The written appeal must specify which portions
of the decision the appellant finds to be in error and explain the appellant’s
reasons for determining that the decision is in error and contrary to the
provisions of this title. Any supplemental information regarding the appeal
must be submitted no later than seven (7) days prior to the date set for the
appeal.
   B.   Not more than sixty (60) following the date the appeal is filed, the
Board shall meet to consider the appeal. The hearing shall not be a public
hearing, but shall be open to the public, and shall be an “on the record
review.” During the hearing, county staff and legal counsel shall be available
to present the application and answer questions; however, oral testimony will
not be received from the audience or the appellant. The Board shall consider
such findings, reports, minutes, comments, and recommendations as were provided
to them by the commission in rendering their decision. Any applicant or other
affected person may request a reconsideration of the Board’s decision.
   C.   Additional or new evidence may be received at the appeal hearing only
if the Board remands the application/decision back to the commission. The Board
may remand the application/decision, one time, when the appellant or affected
party requests leave to present additional evidence. To remand an application/
decision, the Board must find, in writing, that the additional evidence is
material, relates to the validity of the underlying decision, and there was
good reason for failure to present the additional evidence before the original
decision-making body. The Board shall issue an Order remanding the matter and
shall describe the nature of the additional evidence to be presented. The
presentation of additional evidence on remand shall be limited to the evidence
described in the Board’s Remand Order. The additional evidence shall be
presented at a duly noticed public hearing following the procedures contained
in Section
10-3-6. An appellant or affected person may seek reconsideration of the
resulting decision in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
   D.   The decision may be affirmed, reversed, or modified after compliance
with applicable procedural standards. The final decision of the Board shall be
issued in writing with findings and conclusions. The written decision shall be
provided to the appellant within thirty (30) days of the appeal hearing and the
commission shall also receive notice of the Board decision.
   E.   In the event more than one Board commissioner is required to recuse
themselves from the appeal, the commission decision shall be deemed final and
the appellant may proceed to judicial review without reconsideration.
   F.   Upon denial or approval of an appeal with adverse conditions, the
applicant may request a regulatory takings analysis as per Idaho Code Section
67-8003.
   G.   No decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall become
effective, and if applicable no permits shall be issued until the 14-day appeal
period has elapsed.
(Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-10-3: RECONSIDERATION OF A DECISION BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Any applicant or any other affected party may request a reconsideration
of the Board’s decision within fourteen (14) days of the Boards’ decision once
approved in writing and in accordance with Idaho Code Section 67-6535. The
reconsideration request must be in writing and must identify the specific
deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought and shall be
accompanied by the filing fee, in an amount set by the Board and adopted by
Resolution. The Board of County Commissioners shall provide a written decision
to the applicant or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
reconsideration request or the request is deemed denied. For purposes of
judicial review, the decision of the Board of County Commissioners is not
considered final unless the process for reconsideration as set forth in this
title and in Idaho Code has been followed. Any applicant or affected person
seeking judicial review must first request reconsideration of the decision.
   B.   The Reconsideration hearing shall not be a public hearing, but shall be
a meeting open to the public. The hearing shall be an “on the record review.”
The Board shall only consider the underlying record, the written request for
reconsideration, and written specific deficiencies in the decision submitted by
affected persons if any. The hearing shall be limited to consideration of the
issue(s) included in the request for reconsideration. No oral testimony will be
allowed from the audience or by the appellant. The Board may request legal
advice from county legal counsel.
   C.   The Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the underlying decision. The
Board may reverse or modify the underlying decision only if: (1) the Board
finds that the substantial rights of the appellant or affected party has/have
been prejudiced; and (2) the underlying decision is in violation or excess of
constitutional or statutory authority; made upon unlawful procedure; not
supported by substantial evidence; or arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of
discretion. The Board shall not have the authority to waive any requirement of
this title or to take any action that is contrary to the specific provisions of
this title.
   D.   Pursuant to Idaho Code Section 67-6535, a decision shall not be deemed
final for purposes of judicial review unless the process required in this
subsection has been followed. The twenty-eight (28) day time frame for seeking
judicial review is tolled until the date of the written decision regarding
reconsideration or the expiration of the sixty (60) day reconsideration period,
whichever occurs first.
   E.    No decision of the Board shall become effective, and if applicable no
permits shall be issued, until the 14-day reconsideration period has elapsed or
until the Board of County Commissioners has made a decision upon the
reconsideration.
(Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-10-4: REMAND BY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS TO THE PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION:
   A.   The Board may direct that a matter previously heard by the commission
be remanded to the commission for additional fact finding on a specific issue
and reconsideration of the commissions’ previous decision in light of that
additional fact finding as set forth in Section 10-10-2(D). The following
hearing procedures shall apply:
      1.   The Board shall issue an Order remanding the matter and shall
describe the nature of the additional evidence to be presented.
      2.   The taking of additional testimony and evidence shall be limited to
those issues stated by the Board as per its written Remand Order, at a duly
noticed public hearing following the procedures found in Section
10-3-6 herein. Notice of the remanded hearing shall be delivered by regular
U.S. Mail and shall also be sent to the applicant and to any parties who
presented testimony or evidence regarding the application.
      3.   The notice shall list the limitations on testimony as per the
Board’s directive.
   B.   After hearing the new testimony or evidence, the commission shall issue
new findings of fact and conclusions of law which shall be sent to the Board
for further action.
   C.   If under appeal, the appeal may be withdrawn, or a different appeal may
be filed by an affected party.
(Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-10-5: VARIANCES:
An affected person aggrieved by a decision may, within twenty eight (28) days
after all remedies have been exhausted under this title, seek judicial review
under the procedures provided by Idaho Code title 67, chapter 52.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-10-6: REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AFFECTED PERSON:
   A.   At any time prior to final action on an appeal application, if no
hearing has been held, any affected person may petition the Board in writing to
hold a hearing.
   B.   If twenty (20) affected persons petition for a hearing, the hearing
shall be held.
   C.   The hearing and notice procedure shall comply with chapter 3 of this
title and Idaho Code section 67-6509.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
10-10-7: VARIANCES:
The commission may authorize in specific cases such variance, as herein
defined, from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance shall
not be considered a right or a special privilege, but may be granted to an
applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of
the site and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
   A.   Application And Standards For Variances: A variance from the terms of
this title shall not be granted by the commission unless and until a written
application for a variance is submitted to the Administrator and the
commission, containing:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of property.
      3.   Description of variance requested.
      4.   A statement demonstrating that the requested variance conforms to
the following standards:
         a.   That unique site characteristics exist which are peculiar to the
land involved and which are not applicable to other lands.
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same zone under the terms of this title.
         c.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same zone.
         d.   That the public interest will not be harmed.
      5.   A variance may not be granted unless the commission makes specific
findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it
which supports conclusions that the above standards and conditions have been
met by the applicant.
      6.   A variance may be granted in compliance with Idaho Code section 67-
6516, and notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be provided to property
owners adjoining the subject property.
   B.   Variance Procedure: Upon receipt of an application for a variance, the
commission shall allow all affected persons an opportunity to be heard. The
commission shall use the hearing procedures in chapter 3 of this title.
   C.   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: Under no circumstances shall
the commission grant or allow a variance, expressly or by implication,
prohibited by the terms of this title. In granting any variance, the commission
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made part of the terms
under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of
this title.
   D.   Notification To Applicant: Within ten (10) days after a decision has
been rendered, the Administrator shall provide the applicant with written
notice of the action on the request for variance.
   E.   Appeal To Board Of County Commissioners: The applicant or any affected
person may appeal the decision of the commission relating to a variance, to the
Board, provided the appeal follows the procedures as identified in section
10-10-2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-18-2024)
CHAPTER 11
MANUFACTURED HOMES, MODULAR BUILDINGS, MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Design Criteria
10-11-2: Manufactured/Modular Home Standards
10-11-3: Travel Trailer Or Recreational Vehicle Park
10-11-4: Review And Approval
10-11-5: Installation Standards
10-11-1: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Mobile home and travel trailer parks shall require a conditional use
permit. The following general criteria shall apply to the establishment or
enlargement of any manufactured home, travel trailer, and/or recreational
vehicle park:
      1.   Design, construction, operation and maintenance shall be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity.
      2.   Use shall be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title
and the plan.
      3.   Minimum health standards as set forth by the health authority shall
apply.
      4.   The park shall be screened by a sight obscuring fence not less than
six feet (6') in height extending along both side and rear property lines. The
commission shall approve the sight obscuring fence material.
      5.   No manufactured home, travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall
be allowed in a park until all the improvements are final and approval has been
obtained from the Planning and Zoning and the Building and Safety Departments
and the Health Department and DEQ, if required.
      6.   No manufactured home shall be placed in a manufactured home park
without first obtaining a setting permit from the Building and Safety
Department.
      7.   The land for the park shall be in one ownership and shall not be
divided.
   B.   The following area requirements shall apply:
      1.   The minimum area required for a new manufactured home park shall be
five (5) acres.
      2.   The minimum area required for a travel trailer and/or recreational
vehicle park shall be two (2) acres.
      3.   Expansion of an existing park must increase the overall size to the
minimum acreage requirement.
      4.   Density is limited by the square footage requirement per
manufactured home space, excluding road area requirements.
      5.   A recreation and/or open space area may be required to serve the
need of park residents and to create an area for placement of snow during
winter.
      6.   A manufactured home park, travel trailer and/or recreational vehicle
park may be combined; however, the minimum acreage requirements shall remain
the same for each type of use and the uses shall be separated. (Ord. 2012-08,
10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-11-2: MANUFACTURED/MODULAR HOME STANDARDS:
The commission shall review the proposed plans for each new or expansion
proposal for a manufactured home park in terms of the following standards and
shall find adequate evidence that each has been addressed and compliance
exists:
   A.   Space:
      1.   The minimum size of designated space per manufactured home shall be
six thousand (6,000) square feet.
      2.   Each manufactured home area shall have a patio area of at least two
hundred (200) square feet and be of a hard surfaced material.
      3.   Each manufactured home space shall have a stand area that is hard
surfaced or compacted gravel.
   B.   Setbacks:
      1.   The placement of dwellings within a mobile home park shall observe a
twenty foot (20') setback from all abutting property. The commission may
require landscaping in this area in addition to the site obscuring fence. No
additional rear yard area is required where the residence is adjacent to the
twenty foot (20') perimeter area.
      2.   Setback from any County road shall be the same as required for any
other structures in this title.
      3.   Setback from any interior roadway shall be fifteen feet (15') from
the edge of the pavement.
      4.   There shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') between manufactured
homes.
      5.   At no time shall a designated side yard area be reduced to less than
five feet (5').
      6.   All storage buildings must maintain a minimum distance of five feet
(5') from any manufactured home and shall not be located in the front setback
area.
   C.   Parking:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) vehicle parking spaces at least ten feet by
twenty feet (10' x 20') in size for each residential space with unobstructed
access to the roadway.
      2.   A minimum of two (2) guest parking spaces shall be located in a
separate parking area and an additional one and one-half (11/2) parking spaces
for every five (5) residences thereafter when the roadway width does not allow
for parking.
   D.   Structures:
      1.   Structures for each resident space shall be limited to a storage
building and a carport or a combination thereof.
      2.   No permanent or temporary structure, excluding approved awnings or
patio covers, shall be attached to or supported by a manufactured home.
      3.   Skirting is required, but shall not create a fire hazard.
   E.   Park Storage: A separate fenced area shall be provided for the storage
of accessory items such as boats, vacation trailers, campers, and related
equipment owned by the park residents, and there shall be no on site storage of
these items on designated residence spaces or on roadways.
   F.   Refuse Disposal:
      1.   Storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall be managed so that
it does not create health hazards, rodent habitat, insect breeding areas,
accident hazards, or air pollution.
      2.   Refuse collection containers shall be rodentproof containers,
located not more than five hundred feet (500') from any residential space, and
sufficient in number to prevent refuse from overflowing.
      3.   Containment areas shall be screened from view and racks or holders
shall be provided for refuse containers and designed to prevent containers from
tipping, minimize spillage and container deterioration, and facilitate
cleaning.
      4.   All refuse shall be collected weekly.
   G.   Insect And Rodent Control: Insect and rodent control shall be applied
as recommended by the health authority.
   H.   Utilities:
      1.   If gas is available, all hookups shall be installed in accordance
with the appropriate Code and provided to each space.
      2.   An electrical outlet shall be provided for each space and installed
in accordance with the appropriate Code. All service lines shall be installed
underground.
      3.   The park shall be well drained, with provisions approved by the
County's Public Works Department.
      4.   Sewage disposal shall be a Municipal system or a private system that
shall meet all rules and regulation of the health authority and DEQ and any
other State or Federal regulations.
      5.   A safe and potable central water system that has adequate pressure
shall be provided to all space connections.
      6.   The park must meet all rules and regulations of the appropriate fire
district. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-11-3: TRAVEL TRAILER OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK:
   A.   Standards: The same standards listed in section
10-11-2 of this chapter shall be applied with the following exceptions:
      1.   Stands shall be a minimum of twenty feet by fifty feet (20' x 50'),
located at least five feet (5') from all accessways, and have fifteen feet
(15') between stands.
      2.   One parking space shall be provided for each space.
      3.   No patio or storage building shall be required.
      4.   A convenience store may be allowed as part of the park in a
commercial zone; however, the convenience store must meet all requirements in
this title for such use.
   B.   Supplemental Provisions:
      1.   Due to the short term parking nature of travel trailer and
recreational vehicle parks, adequate restroom and laundry facilities shall be
provided as follows in this section.
      2.   A minimum of one laundry facility and a minimum of one thereafter
for every twenty (20) spaces and separated from a restroom unit, each having an
exterior entrance.
      3.   A minimum of two (2) restrooms, one for each gender and a minimum
thereafter of one for each gender for every ten (10) spaces or as approved by
the health authority.
      4.   A shower facility with a dressing compartment and stool or bench for
each gender in separate compartments with self- closing doors, the shower
facility may be located in the same building as the restroom.
      5.   All laundry and restroom facilities shall be constructed of
waterproof material for cleaning purposes and well lighted with both interior
and exterior lighting.
      6.   All walkways shall be hard surfaced or gravel contained within a
concrete curb or as approved and shall be well lighted and maintained in a safe
and nonhazardous manner.
      7.   All entrances and exits from the park shall be forward motion only.
No travel trailer space shall be allowed direct access to a public roadway or
street other than by the approved park roadway system. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-11-4: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
After review and approval by the commission, the developer shall record a final
site plan at a scale of not less than one inch equals two hundred feet (1" =
200') and shall provide, in detail, the information required in this title.
This shall include detailed and complete plans of the alignment, location and
grade of all streets and utilities. If public streets are to be dedicated to
the County, they must first be approved by the Board following the subdivision
procedure in chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-11-5: INSTALLATION STANDARDS:
All mobile and manufactured homes shall comply with the State of Idaho
Manufactured Home Installation Standard promulgated by the Division of Building
Safety Manufactured Housing section and/or the adopted Building Code. (Ord.
2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 12
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Effect
10-12-3: Application Of Provisions
10-12-4: Minimum Area
10-12-5: Overall Requirements
10-12-6: Ownership Requirements
10-12-7: Common Open Space
10-12-8: Amenities
10-12-9: Utility Requirements
10-12-10: Commercial Uses
10-12-11: Industrial Uses
10-12-12: Recreational Uses
10-12-13: Contents Of Development Plan Application
10-12-14: Public Notice And Hearing
10-12-15: Recommendation By Commission
10-12-16: Action By Board
10-12-17: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to encourage the unified and planned
development of land at the time of development by the use of planned unit
developments (PUD) by considering deviations from specific or strict compliance
with zone regulations in this title and to allow by master planning flexibility
in site design and dimensional standards to develop residential, commercial
and/or industrial uses not allowed individually within the specific zones,
resulting in:
   A.   A more efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of open space and
recreational amenities.
   B.   A variety of housing and building types.
   C.   The placement of structures that is compatible with abutting
development.
   D.   An integrated development that is served by essential services.
   E.   Protection of existing natural, scenic, and historic resources.
   F.   Protection of existing neighborhoods through buffering techniques
including screen planting, open space, and landscaping.
   G.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets.
   H.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities objectives of the plan.
   I.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-
26-2012)
10-12-2: EFFECT:
Uses approved as part of a PUD are the uses for that development, despite how
the land is zoned. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-
9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-4: MINIMUM AREA:
A PUD for the following principal uses shall contain an area of not less than:
   A.   Three (3) acres for residential development.
   B.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial uses.
   C.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use.
   D.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-
26-2012)
10-12-5: OVERALL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The development is preplanned in its entirety with the subdivision and
zoning controls applied to the project as a whole rather than to individual
lots as development occurs. Therefore, densities are calculated for the entire
development, usually permitting a tradeoff between clustering of housing and
provision of common open space.
   B.   The PUD is usually characterized by a unified site design and while
most commonly used for residential development, the techniques are also
frequently applied to other forms of development such as shopping centers and
industrial parks.
   C.   Occasionally, a PUD may have a mix of uses. The PUD also refers to the
process of site plan review, in which public officials have considerable
involvement in determining the nature of the development. The technique
includes aspects of both subdivision and zoning regulations but permits a
variation in the rigid zoning and subdivision regulations.
   D.   A PUD is administered through a conditional use permit (CUP), if
approved, must be platted. The applicant may be required with the application
to submit a proposed development agreement in conformance with the model
development agreement. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-6: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An application for approval of a PUD shall be filed in the name(s) of
the recorded owner(s) of the property.
   B.   One person or entity shall be in control of a PUD and the subject
property to ensure that the development can be accomplished, until an approved
final plat is recorded. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-7: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area developed in any
residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
   B.   The required amount of common open space reserved under a PUD shall be
held in corporate ownership by owners of the project for the use of each owner
who buys property within the development, or shall be sold to the owners of the
project as a group or be dedicated to the public and retained as common open
space for parks, recreation or related uses. Public utility and similar
easements and rights-of-way for watercourses and other similar channels are not
acceptable for common open space dedication unless such land or right-of-way is
usable and is approved by the commission.
   C.   The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces shall be
specified by the developer before approval of the final development plan.
   D.   Every property developed under the PUD approach should be designed to
abut common open space, or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is
encouraged.
   E.   Dedicated open space/amenities shall abut any lots that have been
reduced below the minimum property size and shall abut multi-family development
within the PUD. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-8: AMENITIES:
All PUDs must contain a minimum of two (2) amenities of a size appropriate to
meet the needs of the development to qualify as a PUD. The amenities may
include:
   A.   At least ten percent (10%) of the gross area of the development for
open space;
   B.   Private active recreational facilities;
   C.   Swimming pool;
   D.   Tennis court;
   E.   Playground;
   F.   Picnic area;
   G.   Private park;
   H.   Golf course;
   I.   Pedestrian and/or bicycle pathways; or
   J.   Other amenities, including public amenities, approved by the
commission. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-9: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems which can be
effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement if the commission
finds that such exception will not violate the intent or character of the
proposed PUD. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-10: COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   When PUDs include commercial uses, commercial buildings and
establishments shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and
common ingress and egress points in order to reduce the number of potential
accident locations at intersections. Plant screens or fences shall be provided
on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
   B.   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious
design of buildings and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for
internal traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and
facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient
from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
   C.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-11: INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the
development results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
   B.   Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in park like
surroundings utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen
lighting, parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw
materials or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony
of buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of
such utility services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
   C.   Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential
uses. All intervening spaces between the right-of-way line and project building
line and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas and
improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and shall be
properly maintained. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-12: RECREATIONAL USES:
   A.   PUDs which are primarily recreational in nature shall be developed
utilizing natural surroundings and existing woodlands as buffers to screen
nonrecreational uses.
   B.   Buildings shall be harmonious and compatible with the surrounding
scenery and terrain. Residential buildings shall be grouped so as to preserve
as much land as possible in its natural state and thoroughfares shall be kept
to a minimum in order to reduce through traffic.
   C.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
development shall be left as natural as possible. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-13: CONTENTS OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPLICATION:
A development plan shall be filed with the Administrator by at least one
property owner or his agent. At a minimum, the plan shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Zones.
   E.   Vicinity map prepared by a surveyor or engineer, showing property
lines, area in acres, existing streets, current zoning, topography at two foot
(2') intervals, existing features including major wooded area, structure,
easements, utility lines and land uses.
   F.   A site plan indicting location and type of residential land uses,
layout, lot sizes and dimensions, building setback lines, proposed streets and
proposed names, utility easements, parks and community spaces, landscape plan,
all proposed buildings, and all functional use areas including parking areas,
public improvements and open space and such other characteristics as the
commission may deem necessary.
   G.   A schedule of the development of units and site to be constructed in
progression, a description of design principles and preliminary building plans
including general flood plans and exterior elevations, or an architect's
rendition thereof.
   H.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing water, sewer,
drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations; waste disposal
facilities; street improvements and nature and extent of earth work required
for site preparation and development.
   I.   The application of a development plan shall be accompanied by a written
statement by the developer setting forth the reasons why, in his/her opinion,
the PUD would be in the public interest.
   J.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land
and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be commonly
owned and maintained. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-14: PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING:
The commission shall follow the hearing procedures requirements of chapter 3 of
this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-15: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   The commission shall recommend that the development plan be approved as
presented, approved with supplementary conditions or disapproved. The
commission shall transmit all papers constituting the record and the
recommendations to the Board.
   B.   The commission shall find that the facts submitted with the application
and presented to them establish that:
      1.   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2) years of
the date of approval.
      2.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be obtained.
      3.   The uses proposed will not be detrimental to present and potential
surrounding uses and will have a beneficial effect which would not be achieved
under standard zone regulations.
      4.   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic, and any increased densities will not generate
traffic in such amounts as to overload the street network outside the PUD.
      5.   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the location
proposed.
      6.   Any exception from standard zoning requirements is warranted by the
design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan.
      7.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development.
      8.   The PUD is in general conformance with the plan.
      9.   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and nonresidential uses proposed. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-12-16: ACTION BY BOARD:
Within a reasonable time, the Board shall either approve, approve with
supplementary conditions or disapprove the application as presented. Upon
granting or denying the application, the Board shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance section(s) or standards used in evaluating the
application.
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-
26-2012)
10-12-17: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the plats and
the development of the project. If no construction has begun within two (2)
years after approval is granted, the approved development plan shall be void.
An extension of the time limit or modification of the approved plan may be
granted if the Board of County Commissioners finds such extension or
modification is not in conflict with the public interest. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 13
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-13-1: Violations Described
10-13-2: Code Enforcement
10-13-3: Extension Of Compliance Date
10-13-4: Penalties
10-13-1: VIOLATIONS DESCRIBED:
The landowner/property owner is responsible for all violations on their
property. Violations include, but are not limited to:
   A.   It is a violation of this title for any person to initiate or maintain
or cause to be initiated or maintained the use of any structure, land or real
property within Bingham County without first obtaining permits, if required by
the adopted Building Code. (Less than 200 square feet and agriculture exempt
structures do not require a building permit.)
   B.   It is a violation of this title for any person to not comply with
specific conditions of approval as stated in a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance, conditional use permit, final plat, development permit or planned
unit development as set forth in this title.
   C.   It is a violation of this title to misrepresent any material fact in
any application, plans or other information submitted to obtain any land use
authorization as set forth in this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-
2012)
10-13-2: CODE ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority To Enforce:
      1.   It shall be the authority of the Planning Administrator to interpret
this title.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer, as authorized
by the Administrator, to enforce the regulations of this title. Code
Enforcement Officers may call upon the services of the Sheriff, fire, or other
appropriate County departments as allowed by State law.
      3.   It is the intent of this title to place the obligation of complying
with its requirements upon the owner, occupier or other person responsible for
the condition of the land and/or structures.
   B.   Investigation:
      1.   Upon receipt of a complaint, a complaint file may be initiated.
      2.   The Code Enforcement Officer may investigate any structure or use
which he or she reasonably believes does not comply with the standards and
requirements of this title. They shall not enter the property in question
without the express consent of the owner.
      3.   If, after investigation, it is determined that the standards or
requirements of this title have been violated, a Code Enforcement Officer may
serve a notice of violation upon the owner, tenant and/or other person
responsible for the condition.
      4.   The notice of violation should state separately each standard or
requirement violated; should state what corrective action, if any, is necessary
to comply with the standards or requirements; and should set a reasonable
compliance date in light of the date of service of notice or publication of
violation. The notice should state that any further violation may result in
criminal prosecution and/or civil penalties.
      5.   The notice shall be served upon the owner, tenant or other person
responsible for the condition by personal service, registered mail, or
certified mail with return receipt requested addressed to the last known
address for such person. If service cannot be made within ten (10) days and
effort is made to serve or mail notice without success, then notice may be made
by publication in the newspaper of record for Bingham County. Notice shall be
considered complete upon date of last publication. The Code Enforcement Officer
will record all efforts made to effect service in person or by mail as part of
their investigative report. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-13-3: EXTENSION OF COMPLIANCE DATE:
   A.   The Administrator may grant a reasonable extension of time for
compliance with any notice or order, whether pending or final, upon finding
that substantial progress toward compliance has been made and that the public
will not be adversely affected by the extension. Such extension of time should
not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days, except in extreme cases.
   B.   An extension of time may be revoked by the Administrator if it is shown
that any of the following are true:
      1.   The conditions at the time the extension was granted have changed.
      2.   The Code Enforcement Officer determines that a party is not
performing corrective actions as agreed and so notifies the Administrator.
      3.   If the extension creates an adverse effect on the public.
   C.   The date of revocation shall then be considered as the compliance date.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-13-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   First Offense: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty of a
violation of this title shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine
of thirty five dollars ($35.00) when the violator has not previously been
convicted of a violation of the same or similar provision of this title.
   B.   Subsequent Offenses: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty of
a violation of this title, who has previously been found guilty of or has pled
guilty to a violation under the same or similar provision of this title within
the past five (5) years, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as per
Idaho Code section 18-113.
   C.   Civil Prosecutions: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A and
B of this section, the Prosecuting Attorney, at his or her sole discretion, may
civilly prosecute any violation of this title and seek all available remedies
that may include, but are not limited to, abatement of the noncompliant
conditions, revocation of existing permits for noncompliance, civil damages for
enforcement, or any other remedy as allowed by law. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
CHAPTER 14
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Jurisdiction
10-14-3: Original Parcel Division
10-14-4: Preliminary Plat
10-14-5: Final Plat
10-14-6: Vacated Plat
10-14-7: Combining Preliminary And Final Plats (Short Plat)
10-14-8: Design Standards
10-14-9: Special Developments
10-14-10: As Built Drawings And Specifications
10-14-11: Financial Agreement
10-14-12: Modifications To Recorded Plat
10-14-13: Subdivision And Easement Vacations
10-14-14: Mineral Extraction During Subdivision Construction
10-14-15: Protective Covenants (Restrictive Covenants)
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes the minimum standards for development of subdivision
plats within Bingham County. It shall be the policy to guide subdivision
development to provide the following.
   A.   Promote orderly growth within the County.
   B.   Provide uniform standards for the subdivision of property and to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the people of Bingham
County.
   C.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
   D.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities including procedures for the equitable review
and approval of all plats of subdivision covered by these provisions.
   E.   Encourage development to locate in the City impact areas.
   F.   Provide adequate traffic circulation by coordination of streets within
a subdivision and existing streets.
   G.   Provide for adequate public or private sanitation facilities, water
supply and drainage.
   H.   Provide for adequate open space within a subdivision having lots one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-14-2: JURISDICTION:
These regulations and procedures shall apply to the subdivision of all land
within the unincorporated parts of the County.
   A.   The subdivision of land into more lots than allowed by the original
parcel, parcels or tracts for transfer of ownership or development.
   B.   These regulations and procedures supplement all other regulations of
this title, and where at variance with other regulations, the more restrictive
shall apply.
   C.   These regulations do not apply to any prior recorded legal division by
right or to a lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision created and recorded
prior to the effective date hereof, except when further dividing said lots, any
further division of said lots will require compliance with this chapter and the
filing of an amended or new plat. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-14-3: ORIGINAL PARCEL DIVISION:
   A.   An original parcel in any zone may be divided into no more than four
(4) lots/parcels, including the original parcel. The original parcel shall
constitute the first division/building right. Any division of land beyond four
(4) parcels within an original parcel shall require a subdivision plat to be
filed in accordance with provisions set forth in this chapter and in Title 50
Chapter 13 of Idaho Code.
      Exceptions to the foregoing are as follows:
      1.   An allocation of land in a legal condemnation.
      2.   The exchange of land that does not result in an increase of the
number of lots or decrease a lot in area to less than the required minimum size
for the zone.
   B.   Lots in a platted subdivision are not considered to be an original
parcel and shall not be further reduced without the filing of a new subdivision
plat with commission and Board review and approval.
   C.   Any original parcel that is divided, regardless of the size of the
newly created parcel, retains any remaining rights for further divisions
assuming all other conditions of this title are met.
      1.   The act of conveying any portion of land will be counted as a
division if it is large enough to count as a buildable lot.
      2.   The original parcel shall retain any remaining division rights when
any split occurs, unless they are transferred by deed to another parcel.
      3.   Nonbuildable lots due to size or setback shall not count as a
division.
      4.   Any unused division rights within an original parcel may be
transferred by deed to another lot within the same original parcel except for
the one associated with the original parcel. All division right transfers shall
be recorded in the Bingham County Clerk's Office giving the full legal
descriptions of those properties involved.
      5.   Division rights shall not be transferred from one original parcel to
another original parcel unless they are assessed under one ownership, and are
approved by a conditional use permit.
      6.   When two (2) or more original parcels are combined into one
description, each shall still retain their original available division rights.
      7.   All parcels created with a division right shall use their legally
deeded access or an adjacent and contiguous public right-of-way as the access
to the parcel.
   D.   An agriculture exemption shall be allowed in an A, A/NR or R/A Zone,
outside an impact area, for parcels consisting of 5.01 acres or more. These
parcels must be retained specifically for agriculture purposes, and shall not
be used as a residential building lot. If those parcels consisting of five (5)
acres or larger are for residential purposes, or have not been clearly
designated as an agriculture division only on the deed, they will be counted as
one of the four (4) rights of division.
   E.   Agriculture exemptions, lot splits and/or division rights in a City
impact area are controlled by the current adopted ordinance governing said
impact area.
   F.   Division rights cannot be located within the interior boundaries of any
subdivision. The vacation of a subdivision, in whole or in part, does not
reinstate previously held division rights.
   G.    Those parcel(s) that are in excess of four (4) divisions from an
original parcel will be recognized as buildable, that meet all of the
following:
      1.   Legally recorded before July 1, 1999.
      2.   Minimum of five (5) acres.
      3.   Have a minimum of fifty-foot (50') road frontage, on either a public
County road or a fifty foot (50') easement with no more than four (4) parcels
utilizing one easement.
      4.   If the parcel(s) lot lines are adjusted after October 26, 2012 the
parcel will no longer be considered buildable, unless the number of lots/
parcels are reduced by the adjustment back to pre-1999 status. (Ord. 2012-08,
10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The developer shall submit a written application for the preliminary plat to
the Administrator and shall include at a minimum the following:
   A.   Copies Of Preliminary Plat: Two (2) copies and one digital copy of the
Preliminary Plat (each copy shall have dimensions of not less than eighteen
inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") and shall be drawn to a scale to
ensure the clarity of all lines, bearings, and dimensions. The Preliminary Plat
shall include:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the developer, owner
and surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.   The legal description of the subdivision by section, township and
range; reference by dimension and bearing to a section corner or quarter
section corner.
      4.   The intended use of the proposed subdivision, such as: residential
single-family, commercial, recreational or agricultural, etc.
      5.   Each copy shall have a north arrow and date of preparation including
dates or any subsequent revisions.
      6.   If the proposed subdivision is part of a larger area intended for
development, a Development Master Plan of the entire area shall be provided. If
the proposed subdivision will be developed in phases/divisions, the phase/
division lines must be identified on the preliminary plat. All phases/divisions
must progress in an orderly fashion and shall share a contiguous parcel
boundary.
      7.   Include a vicinity map drawn at an appropriate scale clearly showing
the relationship of the proposed site to the surrounding area within a one-mile
radius, including adjacent subdivisions, main arterial routes, collector
streets, etc.
      8.   The existing zoning of the subdivision and the adjacent land.
      9.   The approximate acreage of the proposed subdivision and the number
of proposed lots.
      10.   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided shall show dimensions for
roadway centerlines, lot lines and blocks including curve data to scale and
numbers of each lot and block.
      11.   Streets, street names, rights-of-way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets, roadways or railroads and, if applicable, of the water,
sewer, sidewalks and other required public facilities. A private road, as
allowed in a planned unit development (PUD), commercial or industrial
subdivision, must be a separate lot. These drawings are not meant to be cross
sections or detailed designs, but shall contain sufficient information to
enable the commission to make a determination as to conformance with the
standards and regulations in this chapter.
      12.   Appropriate details for any special development areas in the
proposed plat, such as hillside, planned unit development, floodplain, nitrogen
priority area, riparian area, wetlands, and wildlife migration routes as
defined by the appropriate state or federal regulatory agency, large scale
development or any other pertinent features, areas or types of development.
      13.   Contour lines shown at a minimum of two-foot (2') intervals and
shall be shown on the preliminary plat map which shows the proposed subdivision
layout. Where land slope is greater than ten percent (10%), show contour lines
at ten-foot (10') contour intervals.
      14.   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
gas lines, power lines, fiber lines, water and sewer lines, wells, septic
systems, and how storm water will be retained and/or disposed of within a
proposed and depicted drainage system area.
      15.   Show the location and distance of all existing wells and individual
septic system on each lot. When requested by the Administrator, the Plat shall
also show the location of wells and individual septic systems on adjacent
parcel(s)/lot(s) wells outside of the subdivision to verify the proposed
subdivision lots have sufficient capability to meet the required distances from
the utility system to the proposed lot(s) for utility future development.
      16.   Plat must include the location and distance of the nearest
Municipal/community water and sewer services.
      17.   All proposed easements will be shown on the plat, including
location, width, and use. New easement(s) providing ingress/egress access
within a subdivision shall only provide access to the lots within the
subdivision, unless specifically approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
      18.   Any existing irrigation canals, private ditches, ridges, culverts,
water mains, lakes, streams, or natural waterways, direction of flow, or
drainage area.
      19.   For a plat of ten (10) lots or more being one-half (1/2) acre or
less in size, must provide open space, playground or recreational area to a
minimum of one-fourth (0.25) acre per every ten (10) lots.
   B.   Supplemental Information for Application Submission:
      1.   Recorded vesting deed for the subject parcel proposed for
development to verify ownership;
      2.   A Narrative statement that contains the following information:
         a.   Existing use of the land, zoning of the proposed subdivision, and
adjacent properties;
         b.   Intended use of the proposed subdivision, such as: residential
single-family, commercial, recreational or agricultural, etc.
         c.   Indicate if the proposed development is in a floodplain
designated area and if so, pertinent information as required by 44 CFR §60.3 -
Floodplain management for flood-prone areas,
         d.   Evaluating effects of proposed subdivision on adjoining
properties;
         e.   General compatibility with other properties and uses;
         f.   Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan
      3.   A Subdivision Guarantee from a title company for the applicable
subdivision boundary prepared within a timeframe no longer than three (3)
months prior to the subdivision application date and may be required to renew
prior to Final Plat if deemed appropriate by the Administrator.
      4.   USDA Soil Resource Report;
      5.   Idaho Department of Water Resources Well Log Report within one mile
of the proposed development;
      6.   Any other applicable report or supplemental information as requested
by the Administrator.
   C.   Proposed Utility Methods:
      1.   Sewage: It shall be the responsibility of the developer to furnish a
statement as to the type of proposed sanitary sewage facilities, which shall
appear on the preliminary plat.
         a.   If individual septic systems are proposed, and if the nearest
municipal/community sewer is within 1,320 feet of the proposed subdivision
boundary, the application shall be accompanied by an estimate, prepared by a
licensed engineer, attesting to the anticipated cost to connect to said service
for consideration of connection feasibility. A request for a feasibility study
may also be directed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and/or the Board if
the distance is greater than 1,320 feet.
         b.   If a community/municipal/district sewer connection or system is
proposed, verification that an adequate developable wastewater system exists,
or will be established to provide service for the subdivision shall be
submitted with the application.
      2.   Water Supply: It shall be the responsibility of the developer to
provide a statement as to the type of proposed water supply facilities, which
shall appear on the preliminary plat.
         a.   If individual wells are proposed, and if the nearest municipal/
community water is within 1,320 feet of the proposed subdivision boundary, the
application shall be accompanied by an estimate, prepared by a licensed
engineer, attesting to the anticipated cost to connect to said service for
consideration of connection feasibility. A request for a feasibility study may
also be directed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and/or the Board if the
distance is greater than 1,320 feet.
         b.   If an existing individual well is proposed to be shared, a
statement from a licensed well contractor shall be provided affirming the well
has the capability and capacity to serve all proposed users shall be submitted
with the application.
         c.   If a community well is proposed, verification that an adequate
capacity exists and that water service will be provided to the subdivision
shall be submitted with the application.
      3.   Stormwater Retention/Disposal: It shall be the responsibility of the
developer to provide a statement as to how stormwater will be retained/disposed
of, which will appear on the preliminary plat. For centralized or shared
stormwater retention (ponds, swales, underground detention, etc.), the
developer shall furnish the Planning and Zoning Department a stormwater
drainage plan which depicts the areas where stormwater is planned for
retention/disposal. The site grading design, calculations and any proposed
stormwater system details shall be included in the Construction Plans.
      4.   Irrigation System: When applicable, it shall be the responsibility
of the developer to provide a statement as to how irrigation water will be
delivered to the subdivision consistent with Idaho Code Section 31-3805(1)(b).
         a.   All irrigation ditches within a subdivision zoned residential
shall along the front of the subdivision and the front of each individual lot
(s) have enclosed systems, unless an exception is granted by the Board.
         b.   All lots of one acre or less shall be provided irrigation through
an underground tile or other like satisfactory underground conduit pursuant to
Idaho Code Section 31-3805(1)(a).
         c.   Any improvements involving the distribution system of any
irrigation district shall have the prior written approval of the affected
irrigation district pursuant to Idaho Code Section 42- 1207. For lots greater
than one acre, and in specific instances where the governing authority of the
irrigation ditch, canal, lateral, or the down-stream water users provide
written approval or denial of the conversion of an open system to an enclosed
system, the Board of County Commissioners may consider allowing the open ditch
system to exist in the proposed subdivision.
         d.   If water rights are currently associated with the land included
within the proposed subdivision boundary, then irrigation must be provided to
each lot.
         e.   The developer shall submit an irrigation and distribution system
plan with the subdivision application that includes:
            (1)   if the method of irrigation water delivery is through an open
or buried system;
            (2)   the location of irrigation pump (if applicable);
            (3)   an attestation by a licensed engineer irrigation
professional, contractor and/or developer, that the design/size of pump is
adequate to serve the number of proposed lots with the allotted water shares/
water ownership, a copy of water stock shares or other certificate of water
ownership;
            (4)   A copy of water stock shares or other certificate of water
ownership.
         f.   Prior to Final Plat, the developer shall provide copies of the
community association organization documents, which specifically identify the
irrigation district/company and the operating plan or water users agreement to
both the irrigation district/company and the Planning and Zoning Department
when the subdivision is for three (3) lots or more.
      5.   Utility Easement: The utility easement width shall be a minimum of
ten feet (10') from the exterior boundaries and five feet (5') from the
interior boundaries.
   D.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of the preliminary plat and all other required data,
the Administrator or designated agent shall certify the application as complete
and shall affix the date of the application acceptance thereon.
      2.   The Administrator or designated agent shall transmit one copy of the
preliminary plat and application to County departments and all other agencies
as deemed necessary for review. The agencies may include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         a.   School districts.
         b.   Health district.
         c.   Fire districts.
         d.   Utility companies.
         e.   Irrigation districts or canal company.
         f.   Other intergovernmental departments, (public works, etc.).
         g.   Adjacent Town sites or cities having an impact area agreement.
         h.   The Fort Hall Tribal Council.
         i.   And any other State or Federal agency deemed necessary.
      3.   The Administrator or designated agent shall prepare a staff report
and place the preliminary plat and application on the commission agenda within
a reasonable time not to exceed ninety (90) days from the date of acceptance.
   E.   Commission Action:
      1.   The commission shall hold a public hearing to review the proposed
subdivision plat.
      2.   The hearing and notice procedure shall comply with Idaho Code
section 67-6509 being prior to granting a recommendation to the Board; at least
one public hearing shall be held in conformance with chapter 3 of this title.
      3.   In determining the acceptance of the proposed subdivision, the
commission shall consider the objectives of the ordinance and, at a minimum,
the following:
         a.   Recommendations for conditions of approval that would minimize
adverse conditions, if any.
         b.   The reasons for recommending the approval, conditional approval,
modification or denial.
         c.   The proposed subdivision to be consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan.
         d.   The availability and/or feasibility of public or private services
to accommodate the proposed subdivision.
         e.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed subdivision.
         f.   Any other health, safety, or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
         g.   The recommendations of a City if the proposed development is
located within a City impact area or within one mile of a City not having a
valid impact area.
      4.   The commission may recommend approval, recommend conditional
approval, recommend disapproval or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. The commission shall set a time for any additional information to
be reviewed.
      5.   Upon recommending, granting or denying a preliminary plat, the
commission shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance sections and standards used in evaluating the
application.
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      6.   The Administrator shall forward a statement of the action taken and
the reasons for such action and/or the commission minutes containing such
action, together with a copy of the preliminary plat, to the Board for their
information and review.
   F.   Board Action:
      1.   The Board shall set a date to review the preliminary plat and the
commission decision within ninety (90) days from the date the Commissions
decision is signed.
      2.   The Board shall review the preliminary plat, the written information
presented to the commission, and the commission minutes or the statement of
action taken, prior to making a determination on the proposed plat
      3.   The Board may approve , conditionally approve, or deny the decision
of the commission on the proposed application. The Board may determine that
more information is required and shall return the plat to the commission for a
new hearing. Upon reaching a decision, the Board shall make written findings to
specify the following:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the proposal.
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial.
         c.   If denied, what actions the applicant could have taken to obtain
approval. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-
2025)
10-14-5: FINAL PLAT:
After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
developer may cause the total parcel, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. The
developer shall submit to the Administrator the following:
   A.   Digital copy and/or paper copy of the final plat for review.
   B.   Digital copy of Engineering Drawings: Three (3) copies of the final
engineering construction drawings for streets, water, sewer, sidewalks,
irrigation system, estimate of cost and plans for any other public
improvements, if applicable.
   C.   Compliance: The final plat shall include and comply with Idaho Code
title 50, chapter 13.
   D.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of the final plat, the Administrator shall review the
final plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved
preliminary plat and compliance with all other requirements provided in this
title. If the Administrator determines that there is a substantial difference
in the final plat from the preliminary plat or the conditions have not been
met, the Administrator may have the developer resubmit the preliminary plat to
the commission.
      2.   If the Administrator determines the final plat is in compliance with
all requirements as provided herein and there is no substantial difference from
the preliminary approval, the Administrator shall affix the date of acceptance
on the plat.
   E.   Approval Period: The final plat may not be recorded until all the fees
are paid, a surety bond or other financial provisions posted or recorded along
with a signed and recorded development agreement approved by the Board. The
final plat must be recorded within two (2) years from the date of final
approval by the Board; otherwise, such approval becomes null and void. The
developer may request a one-time extension not to exceed one year, said
extension must be submitted prior to the expiration date. This extension may
only be granted by the Board. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd.
Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-6: VACATED PLAT:
An owner or applicant may petition the Board for a total or partial vacation of
a recorded subdivision plat, including easements and streets. The vacation
shall be processed in accordance with the regulations set forth in Idaho Code
section 50-1306A and recorded in accordance with the regulation set forth in
Idaho Code section 50-1324. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd.
Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-7: COMBINING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS (SHORT PLAT):
The developer may request that the subdivision application be processed as both
the preliminary and final plat if all the following exist:
   A.   A complete subdivision application form and plat data as required by
this title.
   B.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed four (4) lots (excluding
landscaping lots) and where access is provided from an existing County Road
where no new street dedication or street widening is involved.
   C.   The development does not include any special development
considerations, such as floodplain, hillside, riparian, wetland, or any other
special circumstances.
   D.   All required information for both the preliminary and final plat is
complete and in the correct format. The Final Plat will be recorded after the
Board's timeframe for an appeal to be filed has been exhausted and no appeals
have been received.
   E.   And all other agency approvals have been obtained. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-
2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-8: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Provisions: Subdivision improvements and facilities done, constructed
or made in accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design
standards set forth in this chapter; provided however, that any higher
standards adopted by the Public Works Department, State Highway Department or
the Health Department shall prevail over those set forth herein.
   B.   Improvements: All improvements such as roads, private roads, easements,
water facilities, sewer facilities, irrigation systems, street lights, storm
drainage system, and curb, gutter and sidewalks shall be the responsibility of
the developer. Construction plans shall be prepared and submitted with the
final plat. All final approval for construction plans shall be with the
responsible agencies.
   C.   Building Permits: Building permits will not be approved for any
development on lots until all improvements are installed and final approval is
received from all agencies and departments involved. Final approval for each
phase of the project must be received from the Board.
   D.   Lot Design: Lots shall conform to the following:
      1.   The buildable lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than
the requirements of any zone.
      2.   In subdividing tracts that may be resubdivided in the future,
especially in approved City impact areas, the location of lot lines and other
details of the layout shall be such that resubdivision may readily take place
without violating the requirements of these regulations and without interfering
with the orderly development of streets. Restrictions of building within future
street locations shall be made a matter of record.
   3.   The dimensional standards for all lots shall be in accordance with the
applicable zone. Corner lots in subdivisions with lots of less than one acre
shall be increased above the minimum size if needed to see that appropriate
side and rear setbacks can be met.
      4.   Every lot shall have access to an approved public street, except in
a planned unit development, a recreation subdivision or a commercial/
manufacturing subdivision where lots may abut on a private street that
furnishes satisfactory access to a public street.
      5.   Lots shall combine driveway approaches where feasible.
      6.   Proposed or existing private ingress/egress easements shall be
prohibited within the boundaries of the subdivision unless approved by the
Board.
      7.   All road rights-of-way and future road rights-of-way must extend to
the property boundary and/or the subdivision boundary, unless approved by the
Board.
      8.   All lots shall be designed to discourage backing onto a County road.
      9.   If the site grading is such that access would be prevented if one
road is blocked, then a second access may be considered for all plats more than
four (4) lots.
      10.   Division rights shall not be located within the interior boundaries
of any subdivision.
   E.   Block Design: When applicable, blocks shall be so designed as to
provide two (2) tiers of lots, except where lots back onto an arterial street,
natural feature or subdivision boundary.
   F.   Road, Street Right-Of-Way Widths: Street design, right-of- way widths,
cul-de-sacs and radiuses shall conform to the current Highway and Street
Standards adopted by the County as identified by the Bingham County Public
Works Department.
   G.   Intersections Standards: Intersections shall conform to the following:
      1.   Angle of intersection; streets shall intersect at ninety degrees
(90°) or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect
at less than seventy degrees (70°). Streets intersecting an arterial shall do
so at a ninety degree (90°) angle.
      2.   Where any street deflects at an angle of ten degrees (10°) or more,
a connecting curve shall be required to have minimum centerline radium of three
hundred feet (300') for arterial and collector streets and one hundred twenty
five feet (125') for local streets.
      3.   If there is an offset of opposing road, the street centerlines shall
be offset by a distance of at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
      4.   Sight triangles - minimum clear sight distance at all street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle. The sight triangle must be unobstructed along both approaches of both
roads and across their included corners for a distance sufficient to allow the
operator of vehicles to see each other in time to prevent collisions at the
intersection. The sight triangle distances are determined by Idaho Code section
49-221 or Bingham County Public Works Department, respectively.
      5.   Number of streets - no more than two (2) streets shall cross at any
one intersection. Street intersections with more than four (4) legs and Y-type
intersections where legs meet at acute angles shall be avoided.
      6.   Maximum and minimum grades for all streets shall be determined by
the Bingham County Road Standards Manual.
      7.   Pedestrian ways with right-of-way widths of eight feet (8') or
greater may be required where essential for circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.
(Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-9: SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
The purpose of this section is to identify various types of special
developments that normally pose special concerns to the commission and the
Board when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. The provisions of
this section are in addition to other applicable requirements of these
subdivision regulations. Required information shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Department with the preliminary plat.
   A.   General: The development of any hazardous or unique areas may need
special consideration to assure that the development is necessary and desirable
to the public interest. Areas that may be hazardous or unique may be as
follows:
      1.   Unstable soils.
      2.   Historical buildings or places registered with the National Registry
of Historic Places.
      3.   Floodplains.
      4.   Wetlands.
      5.   Nitrate priority areas.
      6.   Riparian area.
      7.   Other areas of critical concern.
   B.   Plan Submission: The applicant, if required, shall prepare and submit
an environmental assessment statement for those areas as above noted and
designated along with the preliminary plat application.
   C.   Content Of Environmental Assessment Statement: The content of the
environmental assessment statement, if required, shall be prepared by
professional(s) that will provide answers to the following questions:
      1.   What detrimental environmental effect may occur as a result of the
proposed development?
      2.   What corrective action or alternative plans could be developed so as
not to significantly cause detrimental environmental effects?
      3.   What adverse effects of the proposed development cannot be
mitigated?
   D.   Condominium(s):
      1.   Site Development Plan: The applicant shall provide the commission
with a site plan, elevations, perspective drawings and such other illustrated
information at a scale to be determined by the Planning Department to show the
proposed development that will include at least the following:
         a.   Site plan.
         b.   Plat showing lots, including common lots and roads.
         c.   Architectural styles and building design concepts.
         d.   Type of landscaping.
         e.   Screening, if proposed
         f.   Type of solid waste facilities.
         g.   Parking concept.
         h.   Open space areas.
      2.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided for every three (3) living units. This may be
reduced by the commission if there is a showing that the needs of a particular
development are less.
      3.   Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the zoning regulations may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
      4.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned.
   E.   Subdivision For A Cemetery:
      1.   The developer shall provide the County with written documentation
that will sufficiently explain if the proposed cemetery will be used for either
human or animal remains or the functions that are anticipated on the property.
      2.   The developer shall submit a written statement that has been
prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the compliance of the proposed
cemetery with the procedural platting requirements and management requirements
that are outlined in Idaho Code title 27.
      3.   Cemetery subdivisions shall not be located within the 100-year
floodplain. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-
2025)
10-14-10: AS BUILT DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.    Prior to acceptance by the County of any public improvements installed
by the subdivider, two (2) sets of prints of the approved "as built" plans and
specifications shall be certified by the subdivider's engineer and filed with
the Public Works Department and approved by the Board.
   B.   Within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of improvements and
submission of "as built" plans in accordance with County specifications, the
applicant's engineer, or if applicant chooses, then the Board or its designated
representative, shall certify the completion and acceptance. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-
9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-11: FINANCIAL AGREEMENT:
Prior to the Board signing the final plat:
   A.   The subdivider or the applicant shall have previously constructed all
required public and/or private improvements and secured a certificate of
completion from the County or applicable governing authority, or filed with the
County Clerk a surety bond or other acceptable guarantee of performance to
ensure the actual construction of such improvements as submitted and approved.
   B.   The improvements when covered by a surety bond shall be constructed
within two (2) years from the date of recording of the final plat; provided,
however, the Board may extend the period one year upon showing of just cause by
the subdivider.
   C.   Such surety bond or other guarantee shall be in the amount of one
hundred twenty percent (120%) of the estimated cost of the improvements not yet
completed provided by a licensed engineer and approved by the Public Works
Director. A bond shall be with a surety company authorized to do business in
the State of Idaho and acceptable to the Board. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff.
10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-12: MODIFICATIONS TO RECORDED PLAT:
   A.    Modified lots in a previously platted subdivision shall not be
recognized as buildable unless they are recorded on an approved amended plat.
   B.   All amendments to a recorded plat involving: public rights- of-way or
easements, vacations of plats and dedications of rights-of-way to public use,
replats or amendments of easements granted for gas, sewer, water, telephone,
cable television, power, drainage, and slope purposes shall be governed by the
provisions of Idaho Code title 30. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012;
amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-13: SUBDIVISION AND EASEMENT VACATIONS:
   A.   Any property owner desiring to have an existing subdivision vacated, in
whole or part, including easements, shall complete and file an application with
the Planning and Zoning Department and also file such other applications as are
otherwise required by law.
   B.   Upon receipt of the completed application and other information as may
be required, the Planning and Zoning Department shall affix the date of
application acceptance thereon. The application shall be considered by the
commission at a public hearing noticed as provided for in chapter 3 of this
title. Vacations shall be processed in accord with the regulations set forth in
Idaho Code section 50-1306A and recorded in accord with the regulations set
forth in Idaho Code section 50-1324.
      1.   The commission shall review the request and any agency response and
make a recommendation to the Board for approval, conditional approval or
denial.
      2.   The applicant shall pay an appropriate fee as determined by the
Board. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-14: MINERAL EXTRACTION DURING SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION:
For mineral extraction (short term) of gravel, sand, soil or other minerals
excavated and removed during the process of constructing a subdivision, the
minerals must be removed from the subject property within six (6) months from
the date excavation begins, per each phase. Extracted minerals may not be
stored on site beyond the six (6) month time period. Prior to commencing any
phase of extraction, the landowner or operator/extractor must deliver to the
Planning and Zoning Department a written notice of the following:
   A.   Name of landowner.
   B.   Name of the operator/extractor.
   C.   Legal description of the property where material is to be extracted.
   D.   A site plan of the property showing the area where the gravel, sand,
soil or other mineral is to be extracted.
   E.   The amount of material to be extracted.
   F.   Any extracted materials cannot be screened, crushed, or processed
without obtaining a conditional use permit.
   G.   The written notice must be dated and signed by the landowner and the
operator/extractor.
   H.   Zoning compliance.
   I.   Application processing fee.
   J.   A copy of an approved reclamation plan, if required. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-
9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 6-11-2025)
10-14-15: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS (RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS):
Protective covenants may be prepared and recorded as part of a subdivision by
the developer. This is usually done to provide protection to future property
owners by establishing higher standards than required under other regulations.
The provisions within protective covenants are enforceable through civil
action, and local governments are not responsible for enforcement of these
provisions. They are not to be used as a basis for decision on an action before
the commission or Board. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012; amd. Ord.
2025-06, 6-11-2025)
CHAPTER 15
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Authority Of Board; Recommendations Of Commission
10-15-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
10-15-3: Contents Of Application
10-15-4: Transmittal To Commission
10-15-5: Commission Public Hearing Procedure
10-15-6: Recommendation By Commission
10-15-7: Action By Board
10-15-1: AUTHORITY OF BOARD; RECOMMENDATIONS OF COMMISSION:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the Board, after receipt of recommendation thereon from the
commission; and being subject to procedures provided by law, may amend,
supplement, change or repeal by ordinance the zoning regulations, restrictions
and boundaries or classification of property. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff.
10-26-2012)
10-15-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission.
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the Board.
   C.   By written petition designating the change desired and the reason
therefor, said petition will be forwarded to the commission.
   D.   By the filing of an application by a property owner of the area
proposed to be changed. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-15-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to this title shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Proposed text amendment or proposed zone change.
   C.   Present land use and present zone.
   D.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Administrator showing
property lines, existing roads and proposed zoning and such other items as the
Administrator may require.
   E.   A statement of how the proposed amendment relates to the Comprehensive
Plan and the criteria of the ordinance.
   F.   Rezone requests for small tracts and/or single ownership tracts must be
accompanied by findings that this change will be a continuation of orderly
development and be a benefit to community interests. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012,
eff. 10-26-2012)
10-15-4: TRANSMITTAL TO COMMISSION:
Zoning boundary amendments shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Request for an amendment to this title shall be submitted to the
commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and nature
of the amendment requested. Particular consideration shall be given to the
effects of any proposed zone change upon the delivery of services by any
political subdivision providing public services, including school districts,
within the planning jurisdiction.
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted plan, the commission
may recommend and the Board shall adopt or reject the ordinance amendment under
the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided.
   C.   If the request submitted to the commission is not in accordance with
the adopted plan, the commission may recommend to the Board that they amend the
plan. The Board shall only amend the Comprehensive Plan using the notice and
hearing procedures provided in chapter 3 of this title. After the Comprehensive
Plan has been amended, the ordinance may then be amended as hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-15-5: COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURE:
The commission, prior to recommending a zoning ordinance text amendment to the
Board, shall conduct a hearing following the procedures in chapter 3 of this
title. (Ord. 2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-15-6: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
After considering the plan, the extent and nature of the effects of any
proposed amendment may have upon the delivery of services by any political
subdivision providing services, including school districts and any other
evidence presented through the public hearing process, the commission shall
make a recommendation to the Board. They may recommend that the amendment be
approved, approved with modifications or that the amendment be denied. (Ord.
2012-08, 10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
10-15-7: ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   The Board, prior to adopting, revising or denying an amendment as
recommended by the commission, shall conduct a hearing following the procedures
as identified in chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   In the event the Board approves an amendment, such amendment shall
thereafter be made a part of this title with passage and publication in the
manner required by law.
      1.   If an amendment to a zoning classification is approved pursuant to a
request by a property owner, the Board shall not subsequently reverse its
action or otherwise change the zoning classification of said property without
the consent in writing of the current property owner for a period of four (4)
years from the date the Board adopted said individual property owner's request
for a zone reclassification change.
      2.   No property owner shall reapply for a reclassification of any
property which has been denied by the Board or resubmit in either substantially
the same form or with reference to substantially the same premises for the same
purposes within a period of one year from the date of such action, unless there
is an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan which applies to the specific
property under consideration.
      3.   An amendment of a zoning ordinance applicable to an owner's lands or
approval of conditional rezoning or denial of a request for rezoning may be
subject to the regulatory taking analysis provided for by Idaho Code section
67-8003, consistent with the requirements established thereby. (Ord. 2012-08,
10-9-2012, eff. 10-26-2012)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Lands To Which Chapter Applies
11-1-4: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-1-5: Administration; Development Permit
11-1-6: General Standards For Flood Hazard Protection
11-1-7: Specific Standards For Flood Hazard Protection
11-1-8: Floodways
11-1-9: Shallow Flooding Areas With Depth Designations (AO Zones)
11-1-10: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-11: Variances
11-1-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by methods and provisions designed for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in
common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the Bingham County building official's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year, also referred to as the "100-year flood".
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map,
and the water surfaces elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found at subsection
11-1-7A2 of this chapter.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle, which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure, either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987; amd. Ord. 98-08, 8-14-1998)
11-1-3: LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of Bingham County. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
11-1-4: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study for Bingham County, Idaho", dated October 20, 1998, and all
subsequent revisions thereof, with accompanying flood insurance maps is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood
Insurance Study is on file at the Planning and Zoning Office of Bingham County,
Idaho, 501 N. Maple, Blackfoot, Idaho. (Ord. 98-08, 8-14-1998)
11-1-5: ADMINISTRATION; DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Establishment Of Development Permit: A development permit shall be
obtained before construction or development begins within any area of special
flood hazard established in section
11-1-4 of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth herein, and for all other development
including fill and other activities, also as set forth herein. Application for
a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the local
Administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn
to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
in question; existing or proposed structures, fill storage or materials,
drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the
following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 11-1-7B of this chapter; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Designation Of Local Administrator: The Bingham County building
official is hereby appointed to administer and implement this chapter by
granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with its
provisions.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Local Administrator: Duties of the
Bingham County building official shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local government
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provision of subsection 11-1-8A of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with section
11-1-4, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, the Bingham County building official shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
Federal, State or other source, in order to administer sections
11-1-7, "Specific Standards For Flood Hazard Protection", and
11-1-8, "Floodways", of this chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the Flood
Insurance Study or required as in subsection C2 of this section, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
habitable floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level); and
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection 11-1-7B3 of this chapter.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the State of Idaho prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation. Such appeals shall be granted consistent with the standards of
section 1910.6 of the Rules and Regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program (24 CFR 1909, etc.). (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
11-1-6: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Homes Installation in Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from other authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   E.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through flood insurance or from another authoritative source (subsection
11-1-5C2 of this chapter), applications for building permits shall be reviewed
to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The
test of reasonableness is a local judgement and includes use of historical
data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available.
Failure to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result
in higher insurance rates. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
11-1-7: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
11-1-4, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", or subsection
11-1-5C2, "Use Of Other Base Flood Data", of this chapter, the following
provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation; in AO Zones, elevate lowest floor to the number of feet
above the highest adjacent ground equal to the AO Zone depth number.
      2.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; in AO Zones, elevate lowest floor to the number of
feet above the highest adjacent ground equal to the AO Zone depth number;
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set in subsection 11-1-5C3b of this chapter.
      4.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection A2 of this section.
      5.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base flood
level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
   C.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequate
foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection 11-1-6A2 of
this chapter. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
   D.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites within
Zones A1-A30, AH, and AE on a community FIRM either must:
      1.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days;
or
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet the requirements of subsection C of this section and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes. (Ord. 98-08, 8-14-
1998)
11-1-8: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
11-1-4 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of sections
11-1-6 through
11-1-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
11-1-9: SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS WITH DEPTH DESIGNATIONS (AO ZONES):
Shallow flooding zones appear in FIRMs, as AO Zones with depth designations.
The base flood depths in these zones range from one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, or where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is usually characterized as sheet flow. In those areas, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   New construction and substantial improvements of residential structures
within AO Zones shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above
the adjacent grade of the building site, to or above the depth number specified
on the FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number as specified).
   B.   New construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures within AO Zones shall either:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade of the building site, to or above the depth number
specified on the FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability or resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this method is
used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as in subsection 11-1-7B3 of this chapter.
   C.   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
11-1-10: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of Bingham County, any officer or
employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance Administration, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
11-1-11: VARIANCES:
In order to secure a variance from the requirements of this chapter to secure a
building permit, an applicant for such permit may follow the variance procedure
set forth in the Federal Registry, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 44 CFR
National Insurance Program, part 60, Criteria for Land Management and Use,
section 60.6, "Variances And Exceptions", dated October 1, 1985, copies of
which are on file in the Bingham County Planning and Zoning Office, which
regulations are hereby adopted by reference, and declared to be a part of this
chapter. (Ord. 87-7, 6-15-1987)
